

Thank you for being part of the Southern Oak family.
Mailer Page Ren: 02 End: 0000
The following item(s) are enclosed with the Declaration page:
GLORIA  MARTINEZ
16021 NW 79TH CT
MIAMI LAKES, FL 33016
SOI DEC 051 09 21, OIR-B1-1670 01 06, SOI DP OOC 02 12, 
SOI PRI 02 14, SOI 04 56 09 21, OIR-B1-1655 02 10, SOI 
2002 DP 05 05, SOI 2016 DL 03 16, SOI 04 67 04 24, SOI 04 
59 05 05, DL 24 16 12 02, SOI DP LRC 04 24, SOI MPLED 01 
16, SOI DL 24 11 05 19, SOI 04 66 03 07, SOI 04 62 03 07, 
SOI SDP LWD 03 20.
Flood damage is a real threat. Most Florida homeowners insurance 
policies don’t automatically cover it. Consider adding our Flood 
Endorsement to your current policy for higher coverage limits and 
lower rates than the National Flood Program.
Dear Policyholder:
Please find enclosed your Southern Oak Insurance Company policy 
and Declaration Page.
Policy Number:  DF000353874-02-0000



P.O. Box 45-9020 • Sunrise, FL 33345-9020 
Customer Service: 877.900.3971 • Claim Service 877.900.2280 
www.southernoak.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dear Policyholder: 
 
Welcome to Southern Oak Insurance Company!  We are pleased to offer the enclosed renewal policy 
for your rental property that was previously insured by Citizens Property Insurance Corporation.   
 
Southern Oak is a Florida-based residential property insurer offering a more comprehensive policy than 
Citizens. Your new Southern Oak policy provides expanded limits and optional coverages not available 
with Citizens. Please note, water coverage provided by Southern Oak differs from Citizens in several 
ways. First, Southern Oak does not utilize a managed repair program for water losses, as we prefer to 
allow  our  policyholders  to  choose  the  service  provider  entering  their  home  at  time  of  repair.  Also,  
Southern Oak’s water coverage can vary based on policy form, endorsement, and age of home. We 
encourage you to review these details as outlined on the coverage comparisons previously provided, 
as well as in the enclosed documents, and discuss any questions or concerns you may have with your 
agent.  
 
Our company is committed to providing you with top-rated customer service. As part of our commitment, 
we have designed our website with you in mind. Visit southernoak.com to find general information about 
Southern Oak as well as several useful resources such as safety tips, how to prepare for a storm, and 
even reduce your premium! 
 
While on our website, click on MySouthernOak to register and manage your policy. MySouthernOak 
empowers you to:    
- View, print, and email policy documents as well as file a claim and find contact information 
- Pay your policy premium online as a guest or registered user in a variety of ways including: 
 - Credit/Debit Card, Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT), or ACH Bank Debit 
 - Apple Pay, Google Pay, PayPal, and/or Venmo  
Please read your new policy thoroughly to gain a full understanding of your insurance protection and 
contact your agent if you have any questions or would like to learn more about the availability of optional 
coverages.  If you are unable to reach your agent, you may contact our customer service department 
toll-free at 877.900.3971. 
 
Thank you for becoming part of the Southern Oak family! 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
Tony A. Loughman, President 



Page 1 of 3
SOI DEC 051 09 21
Print Date 08/28/2025
Color
P.O. Box 45-9020 Sunrise, FL  33345-9020
POLICY NUMBER: DF000353874-02-0000
Previous Policy Number: 08546959
Important Phone Numbers:
Your Agent: (727) 669-4777
Customer Service: (877) 900-3971
Claims Reporting: (877) 900-2280
DWELLING DP-3 POLICY DECLARATIONS
    
                                       
Insured Name and Mailing Address:YOUR SOUTHERN OAK AGENT IS:
GLORIA  MARTINEZ
16021 NW 79TH CT
MIAMI LAKES, FL 33016
GARY HALLOCK
AMERICAN FAMILY AGENCY   23356
PO BOX 731
PALM HARBOR, FL 34682
(727) 669-4777
    Insured location covered by this policy:
10358 NW 30TH TER
DORAL, FL 33172-5050
COUNTY: MIAMI-DADE
TOTAL ESTIMATED ANNUAL POLICY PREMIUM$5,591.27
The Hurricane portion of the Premium is: $1,709.53
The Non-Hurricane portion of the Premium is: $3,881.74
COVERAGE IS PROVIDED WHERE A PREMIUM OR LIMIT OF LIABILITY IS SHOWN FOR THE COVERAGE
PROPERTY COVERAGELIMITPREMIUM
Coverage – A – (Dwelling)$309,000$11,107.00
Coverage – B – (Other Structures)$30,900Included
Coverage – C – (Personal Property)$30,000$969.00
Coverage – D – (Fair Rental Value)$30,900Included
DEDUCTIBLES 
In case of a loss, we only cover that part of the loss over the deductible stated or
      as otherwise indicated in your policy:
All Other Perils Deductible $2,500
Windstorm Or Hail (Other than Hurricane) Deductible $2,500 
Hurricane Deductible $6,180 (2% of Coverage A)
LIABILITY COVERAGES
Coverage – L – (Personal Liability)$100,000$49.00
Coverage – M – (Medical Payments)$2,000Included
CREDIT AND SURCHARGES-$6,615.82
     Windstorm Loss Mitigation Credit-$6,231.52
     Building Code Effectiveness Grading Credit-$98.65
     Roof Age Surcharge$549.56
Renewal  
Policy Effective Date: 10/18/2025 12:01AM
Policy Expiration Date: 10/18/2026 12:01AM

Page 2 of 3
SOI DEC 051 09 21
Print Date 08/28/2025
Color
P.O. Box 45-9020 Sunrise, FL  33345-9020
POLICY NUMBER: DF000353874-02-0000
Previous Policy Number: 08546959
Important Phone Numbers:
Your Agent: (727) 669-4777
Customer Service: (877) 900-3971
Claims Reporting: (877) 900-2280
     Age of Home (Non Wind Premium) Credit-$275.12
     AOP Deductible Credit-$437.75
     Windstorm or Hail Deductible Surcharge$7.35
Transition Factor Credit-$129.69
POLICY FEES$82.09
Managing General Agency Fee$25.00
Emergency Management Preparedness and Assistance Trust Fund Fee$2.00
Florida Insurance Guaranty Association 2023 Emergency Assessment Fee$55.09
Premium Change Due to Coverage Change : $0.00
Premium Change Due to Rate Change : $0.00
Premium Change Due to Fee Change : $0.00
Policy Forms and Endorsements:
SOI 2002 DP 05 05SOI 2016 DL 03 16SOI 04 67 04 24SOI 04 59 05 05
DL 24 16 12 02SOI DP LRC 04 24SOI MPLED 01 16SOI DL 24 11 05 19
SOI 04 66 03 07SOI 04 62 03 07SOI SDP LWD 03 20
Rating Information:
Construction:MasonryYear Built:2006
Occupied by:TenantUsage Type:Rental
BCEG Grade:04Territory:034-13
Protection Class:02Exclude Wind Coverage:No
Number of Families:1Fire Alarm:None
Automatic Sprinklers:NoneOpening Protection:None
Roof Shape:GableRoof Year:2006
Roof Material:Tile-Clay
Roof Age:19 years
FIRST LIEN
Loan# 0335150561
WELLS FARGO BANK NA 936 ITS SUCCESSORS AND/OR ASSI
PO BOX 100515 
FLORENCE, SC 29502-0515, United States
Authorized Countersignature: 
  OPTIONAL COVERAGES PREMIUM   LIMIT$0.00
Water Coverage             $15,450 (5% of Coverage A)Included

Page 3 of 3
SOI DEC 051 09 21
Print Date 08/28/2025
Color
P.O. Box 45-9020 Sunrise, FL  33345-9020
POLICY NUMBER: DF000353874-02-0000
Previous Policy Number: 08546959
Important Phone Numbers:
Your Agent: (727) 669-4777
Customer Service: (877) 900-3971
Claims Reporting: (877) 900-2280
NOTICES
THIS POLICY CONTAINS A SEPARATE DEDUCTIBLE FOR 
HURRICANE LOSSES, WHICH MAY RESULT IN HIGH OUT-OF-
POCKET EXPENSES TO YOU.
YOU MAY ALSO NEED TO CONSIDER THE PURCHASE OF 
FLOOD INSURANCE FROM THE NATIONAL FLOOD 
INSURANCE PROGRAM. WITHOUT THIS COVERAGE, YOU 
MAY HAVE UNCOVERED LOSSES. PLEASE DISCUSS THESE 
COVERAGES WITH YOUR INSURANCE AGENT.
YOUR POLICY PROVIDES COVERAGE FOR A CATASTROPHIC GROUND COVER 
COLLAPSE THAT RESULTS IN THE PROPERTY BEING CONDEMNED AND 
UNINHABITABLE. OTHERWISE, YOUR POLICY DOES NOT PROVIDE COVREAGE 
FOR SINKHOLE LOSSES. YOU MAY PURCHASE ADDITIONAL COVERAGE FOR 
SINKHOLE LOSSES FOR AN ADDITIONAL PREMIUM.
Your Building Code Effectiveness Grading Schedule adjustment is -5.30%The adjustment applies only to the wind portion of the 
premium and can range from a surcharge of 1.0% to a credit of 9.8%.
IN CASE OF A LOSS TO COVERED PROPERTY, YOU MUST TAKE REASONABLE EMERGENCY MEASURES SOLELY TO 
PROTECT THE PROPERTY FROM FURTHER DAMAGE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE POLICY PROVISIONS (MAY NOT 
EXCEED THE GREATER OF $3,000 OR 1% OF YOUR COVERAGE A LIMIT OF LIABILITY UNLESS YOU CALL US FIRST AND 
RECEIVE OUR APPROVAL). PROMPT NOTICE OF THE LOSS MUST BE GIVEN TO US OR YOUR INSURANCE AGENT. 
EXCEPT FOR REASONABLE EMERGENCY MEASURES, THERE IS NO COVERAGE FOR REPAIRS THAT BEGIN BEFORE 
THE EARLIER OF: (A) 72 HOURS AFTER WE ARE NOTIFIED OF THE LOSS, (B) THE TIME OF LOSS INSPECTION BY US, OR 
(C) THE TIME OF OTHER APPROVAL BY US. TO REPORT A LOSS OR CLAIM CALL (877) 900-2280.
Ordinance or Law Coverage: 10% of the Coverage A Limit
For assignment agreement notices of presuit demands, send to: Claims Department, 830 A1A North, Suite 13-326, Ponte  
Vedra Beach, FL 32082 or claims@southernoakins.com.



             OIR-B1-1670 (1-1-06) 1 of 3
Checklist of Coverage
Policy Type:
Dwelling
(Indicate: Homeowner's, Condominium Unit Owner's, Tenant's, Dwelling, or Mobile Home Owner's)
The following checklist is for informational purposes only. Florida law prohibits this checklist from changing any of the provisions of the
insurance contract which is the subject of this checklist. Any endorsement regarding changes in types of coverage, exclusions, limitations, 
reductions, deductibles, coinsurance, renewal provisions, cancellation provisions, surcharges, or credits will be sent separately.
Reviewing this checklist together with your policy can help you gain a better understanding of your policy's actual coverages and limitations, and 
may even generate questions. By addressing any questions now, you will be more prepared later in the event of a claim. Experience has 
shown that many questions tend to arise regarding the coverage of attached or detached screened pool enclosures, screened porches, and 
other types of enclosures. Likewise, if your policy insures a condominium unit, questions may arise regarding the coverage of certain items, 
such as individual heating and air conditioning units; individual water heaters; floor, wall, and ceiling coverings; built-in cabinets and counter 
tops; appliances; window treatments and hardware; and electrical fixtures. A clear understanding of your policy's coverages and limitations will 
reduce confusion that may arise during claims settlement.
Please refer to the policy for details and any exceptions to the coverages listed in this checklist.  All coverages are subject to the provisions and 
conditions of the policy and any endorsements.  If you have questions regarding your policy, please contact your agent or company.  Consumer 
assistance is available from the Department of Financial Services, Division of Consumer Services' Helpline at (800) 342-2762 or 
www.  fldfs.com.
This form was adopted by the Florida Financial Services Commission.
Dwelling Structure Coverage (Place of Residence)
Limit of Insurance: $309,000Loss Settlement Basis:Replacement Cost
(i.e.: Replacement Cost, Actual Cash Value, Stated Value, etc)
Other Structures Coverage (Detached from Dwelling)
Limit of Insurance: $30,900Loss Settlement Basis:Replacement Cost
(i.e.: Replacement Cost, Actual Cash Value, Stated Value, etc)
Personal Property Coverage
Limit of Insurance: $30,000Loss Settlement Basis:Actual Cash Value
(i.e.: Replacement Cost, Actual Cash Value, Stated Value, etc)
Deductibles
Annual Hurricane:$6,180Windstorm or Hail (Other Than Hurricane):$2,500
All Other Perils:$2,500

Checklist of Coverage (continued)
OIR-B1-1670 (1-1-06)                                                                                                                      2 of 3
The above Limit of Insurance, Deductibles, and Loss Settlement Basis apply to the following perils insured against: 
(Items below marked Y (Yes) indicate coverage IS included, those marked N (No) indicate coverage is NOT included)
Y
Fire or Lightning
Y
Hurricane                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
N
Flood (Including storm surge)                                                                                                                     EXCLUDED                                  
Y
Windstorm or Hail (other than hurricane)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Y
Explosion
Y
Riot or Civil Commotion
Y
Aircraft
Y
Vehicles
Y
Smoke
Y
Vandalism or Malicious Mischief
N
Theft                                                                                                                                                             EXCLUDED
Y
Falling Objects
Y
Weight of Ice, Snow or Sleet
Y
Accidental Discharge or Overflow of Water or Steam
Y
Sudden and Accidental Tearing Apart, Cracking , Burning or Bulging
Y
Freezing
Y
Sudden and Accidental Damage from Artificially Generated Electrical Current
Y
Volcanic Eruption
N
Sinkhole                                                                                                                                                        EXCLUDED
Y
Any Other Peril Not Specifically Excluded (dwelling and other structures only)
Special limits and loss settlement exceptions may apply to certain items.  Refer to your policy for details.
Loss of Use Coverage
CoverageLimit of Insurance
Time Limit
(Items below marked Y (Yes) indicate coverage IS included, those marked N (No) indicate coverage is NOT included)
N
Additional Living Expense
  
Y
Fair Rental Value
    $30,900 Shortest time required to
 repair/replace
Y
Civil Authority Prohibits Use
    $30,900 2 Weeks Maximum
Property -  Additional/Other Coverages
Amount of insurance is an additional amount of 
coverage or is included within the policy limit.
(Items below marked Y (Yes) indicate coverage IS included, 
those marked N (No) indicate coverage is NOT included)
Limit of up to 
$309,000 Unless 
Otherwise Noted
      Included        Additional
Y
Debris Removal
Y
Y
Reasonable Repairs
Y
Y
Property Removed
$1,000Y
N
Credit Card, Electronic Fund Transfer Card, or 
Access Device, Forgery and Counterfeit Money
N
Loss Assessment
Y
CollapseY
Y
Glass or Safety Glazing Material
Y
N
Landlord's Furnishings
Y
Law and Ordinance
$30,900Y
N
Grave Markers
Y
Mold / Fungi
$10,000Y

Checklist of Coverage (continued)
OIR-B1-1670 (1-1-06)                                                                                                                      3 of 3
Discounts
(Items below marked Y (Yes) indicate discount IS applied, those marked N (No) 
indicate discount is NOT applied)
Dollar ($) Amount of Discount
N
Multiple Policy
N
Fire Alarm / Smoke Alarm / Burglar Alarm
N
Sprinkler
Y
Windstorm Loss Reduction
-$6,231.52
Y
Building Code Effectiveness Grading Schedule
-$98.65
N
Other
Insurer May Insert Any Other Property Coverage Below
(Items below marked Y (Yes) indicate coverage IS 
included, those marked N (No) indicate coverage is NOT 
included)
Limit of InsuranceLoss Settlement Basis:
(i.e.: Replacement Cost, Actual Cash Value, Stated 
Value, etc.)
N Flood Coverage A - Building  
N Flood Coverage B - Contents  
Y Limited Water Damage $15,450 Replacement Cost
Personal Liability Coverage
Limit of Insurance:$100,000
Medical Payments to Others Coverage
Limit of Insurance:$2,000
Liability - Additional/Other Coverages
Amount of insurance is an additional amount of 
coverage or is included within the policy limit.
(Items below marked Y (Yes) indicate coverage IS 
included, those marked N (No) indicate coverage is NOT 
included)
Limit of Insurance
IncludedAdditional
Y
Claim Expenses
Y
Y
First Aid Expenses
Y
Y
Damage to Property of Others
 $1,000Y
N
Loss Assessment
Insurer May Insert Any Other Liability Coverage Below
(Items below marked Y (Yes) indicate coverage IS included, those marked N (No) indicate coverage is 
NOT included)
Limit of Insurance
N
N
N
N



THIS  OUTLINE  IS  FOR  INFORMATIONAL  PURPOSES  ONLY.   READ  YOUR  POLICY  CAREFULLY.   YOUR AGENT 
WILL  ASSIST  YOU  WITH  ANY  QUESTIONS  ABOUT  YOUR  POLICY.
SOI DP OOC 02/2012Page 1 of 2
OUTLINE OF YOUR SOUTHERN OAK DWELLING FIRE POLICY
This   Outline   is   being   provided   to   help   you   more   easily 
understand your Southern   Oak Insurance Company 
Dwelling   Fire   Policy.    It   highlights   the   major   coverages, 
exclusions,   limitations   and   deductibles   of   your   policy   and 
provides     information     on     discounts,     cancellation     and 
nonrenewal.   However,  this  is  just  a  guide  and  not  a  legal 
contract.          Please    read    your    Dwelling    Fire    policy 
carefully for complete descriptions and details.
The    following    Outline   of   coverage    is    for    informational 
purposes    only.   Florida    law    prohibits    this    Outline    from 
changing   any   of   the  provisions   of   the   insurance   contract 
which   is   the   subject   of   this   Outline.    Any   endorsement 
regarding    changes    in    types    of     coverage,     exclusions, 
limitations,   deductibles,   coinsurance,   renewal    provisions, 
cancellation  provisions,  surcharges,  or  credits  will  be  sent 
separately.
SECTION I - PROPERTY COVERAGE
Coverage A - Dwelling
Protects  against   covered   loss   to   t h e    dwel l i n g   on   t h e  
Des c r i b e d   L o c a ti o n    s h o w n   in   the   dec l a ra t i o n s   and 
structures  attached  to  the  dwelling.   It  also  protects   against 
covered   loss   to   building   materials   located   on   or  next  to 
the  Described  Location  which  are  being  used  in  connection 
with the dwelling or other structures on the Described Location.
Note:   The  standard  policy  does  not  provide  coverage  for 
screen   enclosures   that   are   damaged   from   the   peril   of 
hurricane. This coverage is available for additional premium.
Coverage B - Other Structures
Protects   against   covered   loss   to   any   structure   on   the 
Described Location  not physically attached to the dwelling.
Coverage C - Personal Property
IF  PURCHASED,  protects  against  covered  loss  to  personal 
property  which  is  usual  to  the  occupancy  as  a  dwelling  and 
owned  or  used  by  you  or  members  of  your  family  while  on 
the  Described  Location.   Additionally,  there  are  some  items 
not   covered   under   Coverage   “C”.    Some   examples   are 
animals,   motorized   vehicles   and   property   of   roomers   or 
boarders  and  other  tenants.   Please  review  your  policy  for 
a  complete   list   of   items   that   have   special   limits   or  are 
excluded.
Coverage  D – Fair Rental Value
Protects   against   loss   if  part  of  the  Described  Location   is 
damaged  by  a  covered  peril  and  made  unfit  for  its  normal 
rental  use.   We  covered  the  fair  rental  expense  less  any 
expenses that do not continue while that part of the Described 
Location  is  unfit  to  live  in.  Refer  to  the  policy  for  specific  time 
lines with regard to coverage.
Additional Coverage
•Debris Removal
•Reasonable  Repairs
•Trees, Shrubs, and Other Plants
•Fire Department  Service Charge
•Property  Removed
•Collapse
•Glass  or  Safety  Glazing  Material
•Landlords  Furnishings
•Fungi, Wet or Dry Rot, Yeast or Bacteria
PERILS INSURED AGAINST
This   policy   insures   under   Coverages   "A"   and   "B",   if 
applicable  to   your   policy,   against   sudden   and   accidental 
direct  physical  losses  except  as  limited  or  excluded  by  your 
policy. This policy insures under Coverage “C” for sudden and 
accidental direct physical losses except as limited or excluded by 
your policy for loss caused by:
•Fire or Lightning
•Windstorm  or Hail
•Explosion
•Riot or Civil Commotion
•Aircraft
•Vehicles
•Smoke
•Vandalism  or  Malicious  Mischief
•Damage by Burglars
•Catastrophic Ground Cover Collapse
•Falling Objects
•Freezing of Plumbing or Household  Appliances
•Accidental Discharge or Overflow of Water or Steam 
from an Appliance
Note:    (1)   If   the   dwelling   is   located   in   a   “Wind   Only” 
designated   area,   “Windstorm   or   Hail”   coverage   must   be 
excluded  from  your  policy.   Be  sure  to  obtain  this  important 
coverage  if  it  has  been  excluded  from  your  policy.  (2)  If  the 
dwelling  has  been  vacant  for  60  consecutive  days  prior  to 
the   date   of   loss,   there   is   no   coverage   for   vandalism, 
sprinkler leakage,  glass  breakage,  or damage by burglars.
PROPERTY EXCLUSIONS
This  policy  does  not  provide  protection  under  Coverages 
"A",  "B"  and  "C",  if  applicable  to  your  policy  for  losses 
resulting from:
•Sinkhole Activity
•Ordinance  or  Law
•Flood, including wave wash
•Off Premises Power Failure
•Back-up  of  Sewers  and  Drains
•Existing  Damages
•Earth Movement, other than a covered sinkhole loss 
or catastrophic ground cover collapse
•Inherent Vice, Decay, Defect & Mechanical 
Breakdown
There are other exclusions.  Please read your policy for 
complete details regarding exclusions.

THIS  OUTLINE  IS  FOR  INFORMATIONAL  PURPOSES  ONLY.   READ  YOUR  POLICY  CAREFULLY.   YOUR AGENT 
WILL  ASSIST  YOU  WITH  ANY  QUESTIONS  ABOUT  YOUR  POLICY.
SOI DP OOC 02/2012Page 2 of 2
SECTION II – LIABILITY COVERAGE
Coverage E - Personal Liability
IF  PURCHASED,  generally   provides   coverage   for   bodily 
injury  or  property  damage  you  or  a  person  insured  under 
your  policy  are  legally   obligated   to   pay.   The   bodily injury 
or    property   damage must arise from an  occurrence 
covered    under  Section   II   of   your   policy.  Coverage   for 
Animal   Liability   and   Home   Day   Care  Operations  are  not 
covered.
Coverage F - Medical Payments To Others
IF   PURCHASED,   provides   coverage   for   reasonable   and 
necessary   medical  expenses  if  a  guest  is  injured  on  the 
Described  Location  or  off  the  insured  premises  under  certain 
circumstances.     The    bodily   injury   must   arise   from    an 
occurrence covered under Section II of your policy with limited 
exceptions.
OPTIONAL COVERAGES AVAILABLE
•Coverage “B” – Increased Limits
•Coverage “C” – Personal Property Coverage
•Coverage “L” - Personal Liability Coverage
•Coverage “M”, Medical Payments to Others Coverage
•Sinkhole  Loss  Coverage
•Fungi, Wet or Dry Rot, Yeast or Bacteria – Increased 
Limits – Section I
•Earthquake Coverage
•Back-up of Sewers and Drains
•Screened Enclosures – Hurricane Coverage
PREMIUM CREDITS
The  following  are  brief  descriptions  of  the  premium  credits 
available    on    your    dwelling    fire    policy. Your    policy 
Declarations  page  will  show  which   of  these  credits,  if  any, 
apply to your policy.
Protective   Devices   -   If   the   dwelling   on   the   Described 
Location   has   a   qualified   central   station   fire   alarm   or   an 
automatic  fire  sprinkler  system,  you  are  eligible  for  premium 
credits .
Deductible   Credits  -  A  hurricane  deductible  of  2%  on   a 
calendar   year   basis   and   an  all  other  peril  deductible  of 
$1,000 apply   to  your   policy.   This   is   the   amount   of  the 
loss   you   must   incur   before   this   policy   pays.  Deductible 
options   higher   than   the   standard   deductibles   may   be 
available   at   a   premium    credit.  Deductible  o p t i o n s    less 
than   the   standard  deductibles  may  be  available  which  will 
result  in  a  premium increase.
Windstorm  Loss  Mitigation  Devices  –   If  the  dwelling  on 
the  Described  Location  is  equipped  or  built  in  accordance 
with  the  current  Florida  Building  Code,  it  may  be  eligible  for 
premium  credits.   Specific  roof  coverings,  roof  shapes,  roof 
deck  attachments,  opening  protection  and  secondary  water 
resistive protection are examples of available credits.
NONRENEWAL AND CANCELLATION 
PROVISIONS
All   cancellations   are   calculated   on a   pro-rata  return  of
premium.   Pro-rata   means   there   is   no   penalty   for   early 
cancellation.
Your Right To Cancel
You  may  cancel  the  policy  at  any  time,  for  any  reason;  by 
giving  us  advance  written  notice  of  the  future  cancellation 
effective date.
Our Right To Cancel
If  your  policy  has  been  in  effect  for  90  days  or  less  and  the 
insurance    is    cancelled    for    other    than    nonpayment 
of  premium  we  may  cancel  for  any  valid  reason  by  giving 
you  at  least  20  days  notice  before  the  cancellation  effective 
date,    except where there has been a material 
misstatement,   misrepresentation,   or   failure   to   comply   with 
underwriting  requirements  established  in  the  first  90  days, 
then  we  may cancel immediately.
If  your  policy  has  been  in  effect  over  90  days,  or  if  your 
policy  is  a  renewal  with  us,  we  may  cancel  your  policy  for 
only  a  limited  number  of  reasons  by  giving  you  at  least
100   days   advance   written   notice   before   the   cancellation 
becomes effective.  These reasons include but  are  not  limited 
to  material misstatement or a substantial change of risk.
For any cancellations that would be effective between June 1 
and November 30 inclusive, we will mail written notice at least 
100 days or by June 1, whichever is earlier, before the 
cancellation becomes effective.
Nonrenewal
If  we  do  not  intend  to  renew  your  policy  we  will  mail  notice 
of   our   intent   to    you    at    least    100    days    before    the 
expiration    date    of    the    policy.    The    renewal    premium 
payment  must  be  received  no  later  than  the  renewal  date  or 
the policy will terminate.
For any nonrenewal that would be effective between  June 1 and 
November 30 inclusive, we will mail written notice at least 100 
days or by June 1, whichever is earlier, before the nonrenewal 
becomes effective.

SOI PRI
Ed. 02/2014www.southernoakins.comPage 1
Southern Oak Insurance Company
Privacy Policy 
Southern Oak Insurance Company (“Southern Oak”) values you as a customer and we know 
how much privacy means to you. We will inform you of our policies for collecting, using, 
securing, and sharing customer information the first time we do business with you and 
every year you are a Southern Oak customer.  This notice explains what we do to protect 
your rights.
Our Privacy Principles
•    We do not sell customer information. 
•    We do not allow those who are doing business on our behalf to use our customer 
information for their own marketing purposes. 
•    We contractually require any person or organization providing products or services 
on our behalf to protect Southern Oak customer information. 
•    We afford prospective and former customers with the same protections as existing 
customers with respect to the use of personal information. 
As providers of products and services that involve compiling personal, sometimes sensitive, 
information protecting the confidentiality of that information has been and will continue to 
be a top priority. We collect and use information we need to conduct our business, to advise 
you of our products and services, and to provide you with customer service. 
Information We Collect
We collect information about you to quote and service your insurance policy. This 
information is called “non-public personal information” if it identifies you and is not available 
to the public. Depending on the products or services you request, we collect non-public 
personal information from some or all of the following sources:
•    Information we receive from consumers and customers on applications and forms.  
You provide this on your application, through your agent or broker, by phone, or 
online. We may also obtain it from directories or other outside sources.  Such 
information may include your name, street and email addresses, phone number, 
driver’s license number, Social Security number, date of birth, gender, and marital 
status.
•    Information about your transactions with us, our affiliates or others. This is 
information includes your insurance coverage, limits and rates, and payment and 
claims history. It also includes information that we require for billing and payment.
•    Information we receive from you from consumer reporting agencies and other third-
party reporting agencies which may include your driving record, claims history with 
other insurers, credit report information, and loss information reports.
•    Information we receive from Internet transactions. This information may include the 
Web site that linked you to ours, your computer operating system, and the pages 
you viewed on our site. Some Web sites, including ours, may also store “cookies” on 
your computer. Cookies collect technical data, like your Internet protocol address, 
operating system and session ID. They also save certain information entered by you.

SOI PRI
Ed. 02/2014www.southernoakins.comPage 2
Information We Disclose
We will not share non-public personal information with other companies for their marketing 
purposes without consent. There is no need to “opt out” or tell us not to do this.
Information about our customers will only be disclosed as permitted or required by law. 
Information about you that has been collected is maintained in your policy and/or claims 
records. We use this information to process and service your policy, to adjust claims, or as 
directed by you. We may also disclose it to persons or organizations as necessary to 
perform transactions you request or authorize. Information about our former customers and 
about individuals who have obtained quotes from us is safeguarded to the same extent as 
non-public personal information about our current customers. 
Following are some examples of how we may disclose non-public personal information:
•    We must exchange non-public personal information with our agents, investigators, 
appraisers, attorneys, and other persons who are or will become involved in 
processing your application and servicing your policy or any claims you may make.
•    When you are involved in a claim, policy information is provided to adjusters and 
businesses that may repair your residence.
•    We may share non-public personal information with persons or organizations that we 
have determined need such information to perform a business, professional, or 
insurance function for us. These include businesses that help us with administrative 
functions. If the law in your state permits, we may share non-public personal 
information with financial institutions with which we have a joint-marketing 
agreement. All of these entities are obligated to keep such information that we 
provide to them confidential and to use the non-public personal information only for 
the purpose for which the information was provided.
•    Information may be provided to organizations conducting actuarial research or 
audits. In this case, you will not be individually identified in any research report. The 
organization must agree not to re-disclose the non-public personal information and 
the information will be returned to us or destroyed when it is no longer needed.
We may also share non-public personal information for other permitted purposes, including:
•    with our reinsurers;
•    with insurance-support organizations that detect and prevent fraud;
•    with state insurance departments or other governmental or law enforcement 
authorities if required by law or to protect our legal interests or in cases of suspected 
fraud or illegal activities; or
•    if ordered by a subpoena, search warrant or other court order.
Confidentiality and Security
We take our responsibility to protect the confidentiality and security of non-public personal 
information very seriously. We maintain physical, electronic and procedural safeguards that 
comply with federal and state standards to store and secure information about you from 
unauthorized access, alteration and destruction. Under our control policies, for example, 
access to customer information is restricted to individuals who need it in order to service 
your policy or provide products and services to you, and who are trained in the proper 
handling of such information. Employees who violate these confidentiality requirements are 
subject to disciplinary proceedings. 

SOI PRI
Ed. 02/2014www.southernoakins.comPage 3
Accurate Information
It is important that the information we maintain about you is accurate and complete. If you 
see information in your policy, billing statements, or elsewhere, which suggests that our 
information is incomplete or inaccurate, please contact your local agent or write to us at the 
address shown below and we will update your information as needed.  Please reference your 
policy number on any correspondence sent to our office.
Southern Oak Insurance Company
P.O. Box 45-9003
Sunrise, FL 33345-9003
Confidentiality and Security
Additional Information for Our Web Site Users
We are interested in how visitors use our web site, what they like and dislike, and where 
they have problems. We may gather data on how users navigate our web site so we can 
make southernoakins.com an easy place to do business. Our tools may gather data such as 
what browser a person uses or even what pages are most popular.
We use cookies to improve your experience while using southernoakins.com. Cookies are 
small files that are stored on your computer. They do not contain any personally identifiable 
information about you. They help us personalize your experience when you return to our 
web site, and they are required for certain portions of our web site. Most browsers let you 
determine whether or not you accept our cookies. If you don’t use cookies, you won’t be 
able to use certain southernoakins.com features, such as the “remember me” function for 
policyholders that lets you store your User ID so you don’t have to input it every time you 
log in from the same computer.
Southernoakins.com may place small pieces of computer code (embedded objects) on our 
pages to help our advertising partners count how many customers they referred to our web 
site. We may use these objects to track how many referred customers actually get a rate 
quotation. We may also use objects placed on other sites to monitor your exposure to our 
advertising or other offers online. These objects don’t collect any personally identifiable 
information about you.
We also provide some links to third-party web sites that are not owned by Southern Oak. 
Southern Oak has no control over their privacy practices and assumes no responsibility in 
connection with your use of their web sites. We recommend that you check the privacy 
policy of any web site before you provide any personally identifiable information.
Changes to This Privacy Policy 
We may modify our privacy policy from time to time. The most recent version is always 
posted at southernoakins.com. Each of our policyholders receives a copy of our privacy 
policy at least once per year. In addition, in the event that we make a significant change to 
our privacy practices, we will send a revised copy of our privacy policy to each of our 
current policyholders.
No Insurance Afforded by this Policy 
If your insurance policy has been canceled or non-renewed, this Privacy Policy Notice DOES 
NOT REINSTATE your policy with Southern Oak. This notice should not be accepted by 
anyone as evidence that insurance coverage is in force.
The Effective Date of this Privacy Policy is February 26, 2014.



POLICY NUMBER:DWELLING FIRE
SOI 04 56 09 21
SOI 04 56 09 21
DEDUCTIBLE OPTIONS NOTICE
Southern Oak Insurance Company, (the company), is required to notify all Policyholders 
of the availability of a $500 deductible for all perils covered by your policy except 
Hurricane.
The Company offers as standard, deductibles of 2% for hurricanes and $1,000 for all 
other perils. In addition, we offer the opportunity for you to buy lower deductibles for 
additional premium, or select higher deductibles for a premium credit. 
•Hurricane deductible options are $500, 2% (minimum $500),5% and 10%. All 
Other Peril deductible options are $500, $1,000 and $2,500.  
•Windstorm or Hail (Other than Hurricane) deductible options are $500, $1,000, 
$2,500, 2%, 5% and 10%.  
•Optional Flood Coverage Endorsement deductible options are $500, $1,000, 
$2,500, $5,000, $7,500 and $10,000.
•Optional Sinkhole Loss Coverage has a mandatory deductible of 10% of the 
Coverage A limit
In the event you select a lower hurricane deductible and have suffered a hurricane loss 
under this policy or under one issued by a member of our company group during the 
calendar year, such lower selected deductible will not take effect until January 1 of the 
following calendar year. 
If your policy does not exclude coverage for the peril of windstorm or hail, there are 
various combinations of All Other Peril and Hurricane deductibles available.  All of these 
deductible options may not be available to you due to the value of your dwelling.
Your policy Declarations Page reflects your current Hurricane Deductible, Windstorm or 
Hail (Other than Hurricane) Deductible and All Other Covered Perils Deductible.  If you 
wish to change your deductibles, please call your agent listed on the Declarations Page. 
Your current selected deductible(s) will continue unless you elect to make a change.



1
OIR-B1-1655 (Rev.02/10) Adopted by Rule 69O-170.0155
Notice of Premium Discounts for Hurricane Loss Mitigation
*** Important Information ***
About Your Personal Residential Insurance Policy
Dear Homeowner,
Hurricanes have caused tens of billions of dollars in insured damages and predictions of
more catastrophic hurricanes making landfall in Florida have triggered increases in
insurance premiums to cover potential future losses. Enclosed is information regarding
wind loss mitigation that will make your home more resistant to wind and help protect
your family during a catastrophic event. In addition to reducing your hurricane wind
premium by installing mitigation features, you may also reduce the likelihood of out of
pocket expenses, such as your hurricane deductible, you may otherwise incur after a
catastrophic event.
What factors are considered in establishing my premium?
Your location: The closer a home is to the coast, the more vulnerable it is to damage
caused by hurricane winds. This makes the hurricane-wind premium higher than for
similar homes in other areas of the state.
Your policy: Your insurance policy is divided into two premiums: one for damage caused
by hurricane force winds (hurricane-wind) and one for all other damage (all perils), such
as fire.
Your deductible: Under the law, you are allowed to choose a $500, 2%, 5% or 10%
deductible, depending on the actual value of your home. The larger your deductible, the
lower your hurricane-wind premium. However, if you select a higher deductible your out-
of-pocket expenses in the event of a hurricane claim will be higher.
Improvements to your home: The state requires insurance companies to offer discounts
for protecting your home against damage caused by hurricane winds. Securing your
roof so it doesn’t blow off and protecting your windows from flying debris are the two
most cost effective measures you can take to safeguard your home and reduce your
hurricane –wind premium. These discounts apply only to the hurricane-wind portion of
your policy.
The costs of the improvement projects vary. Homeowners should contact a licensed
contractor for an estimate. You can find a Certified Contractor in your area by visiting
the Florida Department of Business and Professional Regulation online at
www.myfloridalicense.com.
Your maximum discount: Discounts are not calculated cumulatively. The total discount
is not the sum of the individual discounts. Instead, when one discount is applied, other
discounts are reduced until you reach your maximum discount of 89%.

2
OIR-B1-1655 (Rev.02/10) Adopted by Rule 69O-170.0155
How can I take advantage of the discounts?
Homeowners will need a qualified inspector such as a general, building, or residential
contractor licensed under Section 489.111, Florida Statutes, or a professional engineer
licensed under Section 471.015, Florida Statutes, who has passed the appropriate
equivalency test of the Building Code training program as required by Section 553.841,
Florida Statutes, or a professional architect licensed under Section 481.213, Florida
Statutes, or a building code inspector certified under Section 468.607, to inspect the
home to identify potential mitigation measures and verify improvements. For a listing of
individuals and/or inspection companies meeting these qualifications contact your
insurance agent or insurance company.
The following is an example of how much you can reduce your insurance
premium if you have mitigating features on your home. The example is based on
your hurricane-wind premium* of $1,709.53     which is part of your total annual
premium of$5,509.18     . Remember, the discounts shown only apply to the
hurricane-wind portion of the premium and the discounts for the construction
techniques and features listed below are not cumulative.
* Wind mitigation credits apply to that portion of your premium that covers
   the peril of wind, whether or not a hurricane exists.
Homes built prior to the 2001 building code
Estimated*Premium
Estimated*Annual
Premium ($) is
Description of Feature
Discount Percent
Reduced by:
Roof Covering (i.e., shingles or tiles)
•Meets the Florida Building Code.
N/AN/A
•Reinforced Concrete Roof Deck.
(If this feature is installed on your home you
N/AN/A
most likely will not qualify for any other
discount.)
How Your Roof is Attached
•Using a 2" nail spaced at 6" from the edge of
N/AN/A
      the plywood and 12" in the field of the
        plywood.
•Using a 2 1/2" nail spaced at 6" from the edge
N/AN/A
        of the plywood and 12" in the field of the
        plywood.
•Using a 2 1/2" nail spaced at 6" from the edge
N/AN/A
       of the plywood and 6" in the field of the
       plywood.

3
OIR-B1-1655 (Rev.02/10) Adopted by Rule 69O-170.0155
Roof-to-Wall Connection
•Using “Toe Nails” – defined as three nails
N/AN/A
       driven at an angle through the rafter and into
       the top roof.
•Using Clips - defined as pieces of metal that
N/AN/A
       are nailed into the side of the rafter/truss and
       into the side of the top plate or wall stud.
•Using Single Wraps – a single strap that is
N/AN/A
       attached to the side and/or bottom of the top
       plate and are nailed to the rafter/truss.
•Using Double Wraps - straps are attached to
N/AN/A
       the side and/or bottom of the top plate and are
        nailed to the rafter/truss.
Roof Shape
•Hip Roof – defined as your roof sloping down
N/AN/A
       to meet all your outside walls (like a pyramid).
•Other.
N/AN/A
Secondary Water Resistance (SWR)
•SWR – defined as a layer of protection
N/AN/A
        between the shingles and the plywood
       underneath that protects the building if the
       shingles blow off.
•No SWR.
N/AN/A
Shutters
•None.
N/AN/A
•Intermediate Type —shutters that are strong
N/AN/A
       enough to meet half the old Miami-Dade
       building code standards.
•Hurricane Protection Type -- shutters that are
N/AN/A
       strong enough to meet the current Miami-
      Dade building code standards.
* Estimate is based on information currently on file and the actual amount may vary.

4
OIR-B1-1655 (Rev.02/10) Adopted by Rule 69O-170.0155
Homes built under the 2001 building code or later
Estimated*
Premium
Estimated* Annual
Discount
Premium ($) is
Description of Feature
Percent
Reduced by:
Homes built under the 2001 Florida Building Code or later
edition (also including the 1994 South Florida Building68.0%$0
Code for homes in Miami-Dade and Broward Counties)
are eligible for a minimum 68% discount on the hurricane-
wind portion of your premium. You may be eligible for
greater discount if other mitigation features are installed
on your home.
Shutters
•None.
0.0%$0
•Intermediate Type —shutters that are strong
 enough to meet half the old Miami-Dade building
  code standards.
N/AN/A
•Hurricane Protection Type -- shutters that are
       strong enough to meet the current Miami-Dade21.8%$0
building code standards
Roof Shape
•Hip Roof – defined as your roof sloping down to
N/AN/A
       meet all your outside walls (like a pyramid).
•Other.
N/AN/A
* Estimate is based on information currently on file and the actual amount may vary.
If you have further questions about the construction techniques and features or other
construction techniques and features that could result in a discount, please contact your
insurance agent or the insurance company at(877) 900-3971      .

Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc., with its permission 
SOI 2002 DP Page 1 of 15 
 
Southern Oak Insurance Company 
DWELLING
 
SOI 2002 DP 
 
DWELLING PROPERTY 3 – SPECIAL FORM 
 
AGREEMENT 
We will provide the insurance described in this policy 
in return for the premium and compliance with all 
applicable provisions of this policy. 
DEFINITIONS 
In this policy, "you" and "your" refer to the "named 
insured" shown in the Declarations and the spouse if 
a resident of the same household. "We," "us" and 
"our" refer to the Company providing this insurance. 
“Fungi” means any type or form of fungus, including 
mold or mildew, and any mycotoxins, spores, scents 
or by-products produced or released by fungi. 
“Business” means: 
a. A trade, profession or occupation engaged in on a 
full-time, part-time or occasional basis; or 
b. Any other activity engaged in for money or other 
compensation, except the following: 
(1) Volunteer activities for which no money is 
received other than payment for expenses in- 
curred to perform the activity. 
DEDUCTIBLE 
Unless otherwise noted in this policy, the following 
deductible provision applies: 
Subject to the policy limits that apply, we will pay only 
that part of the total of all loss payable that exceeds 
the deductible amount shown in the Declarations. 
COVERAGES 
This insurance applies to the Described Location, 
Coverages for which a Limit of Liability is shown and 
Perils Insured Against for which a Premium is stated. 
A. Coverage A – Dwelling 
1. We cover: 
a. The dwelling on the Described Location 
shown in the Declarations, used principally 
for dwelling purposes, including structures 
attached to the dwelling; and 
b. Materials and supplies located on or next to 
the Described Location used to construct, 
alter or repair the dwelling or other struc- 
tures on the Described Location. 
2. We do not cover land, including land on which 
the dwelling is located. 
B. Coverage B – Other Structures 
1. We cover other structures on the Described 
Location, set apart from the dwelling by clear 
space. This includes structures connected to 
the dwelling by only a fence, utility line or simi- 
lar connection. 
2. We do not cover: 
a. Land, including land on which the other 
structures are located; 
b. Other structures rented or held for rental to 
any person not a tenant of the dwelling, 
unless used solely as a private garage; 
c. Other structures from which any “business” 
is conducted; or 
d. Other structures used to store “business” 
property. However, we do cover a structure 
that contains “business” property solely 
owned by a “named insured” or tenant of 
the dwelling provided that “business” prop- 
erty does not include gaseous or liquid fuel, 
other than fuel in a permanently installed 
fuel tank of a vehicle or craft parked or 
stored in the structure. 
e. Gravemarkers, including mausoleums. 
3. The limit of liability for this coverage will not be 
more than 10% of the limit of liability that ap- 
plies to Coverage A. Use of this coverage 
does not reduce the Coverage A limit of liabil- 
ity. 
C. Coverage C – Personal Property 
1. Covered Property 
We cover personal property, usual to the oc- 
cupancy as a dwelling and owned or used by 
you or members of your family residing with 
you while it is on the Described Location. After 
a loss and at your request, we will cover per- 
sonal property owned by a guest or servant 
while the property is on the Described Loca- 
tion. 
2. Property Not Covered 
We do not cover: 

Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc., with its permission 
SOI 2002 DP Page 2 of 15 
 
a. Accounts, bank notes, bills, bullion, coins, 
currency, deeds, evidences of debt, gold, 
goldware, letters of credit, manuscripts, 
medals, money, notes other than bank 
notes, passports, personal records, plati- 
num, platinumware, securities, silver, sil- 
verware, tickets, stamps, trading cards, 
comic books, scrip, stored value cards and 
smart cards. 
This exclusion applies to these categories 
regardless of the medium (such as paper or 
computer) on which the material exists and 
the cost to research, replace or restore the 
information from the lost or damaged mate- 
rial; 
b. Animals, birds or fish; 
c. Aircraft meaning any contrivance used or 
designed for flight including any parts 
whether or not attached to the aircraft. 
We do cover model or hobby aircraft not 
used or designed to carry people or cargo; 
d. Hovercraft and parts. Hovercraft means a 
self-propelled motorized ground effect vehi- 
cle and includes, but is not limited to, flare- 
craft and air cushion vehicles; 
e. Motor vehicles or all other motorized land 
conveyances. 
(1) This includes: 
(a) Their accessories, equipment and 
parts; or 
(b) Electronic apparatus and accesso- 
ries designed to be operated solely 
by power from the electrical system 
of the “motor vehicle”. Accessories 
include antennas, tapes, wires, re- 
cords, discs or other media that can 
be used with any apparatus de- 
scribed above. 
The exclusion of property described in 
(a) and (b) above applies only while 
such property is in or upon the vehicle 
or conveyance. 
(2) We do cover motor vehicles or other 
motorized land conveyances not re- 
quired to be registered for use on public 
roads or property which are: 
(a) Used solely to service the Described 
Location; or 
(b) Designed to assist the handicapped; 
f. Watercraft of all types, other than rowboats 
and canoes; 
g. “Business” data, including data stored in: 
(1) Books of account, drawings or other 
paper records; or 
(2) Computers and related equipment; 
We do cover the cost of blank recording or 
storage media, and of prerecorded com- 
puter programs available on the retail mar- 
ket; 
h. Credit cards, electronic fund transfer cards 
or access devices used solely for deposit, 
withdrawal or transfer of funds; 
i. Water or steam; 
j. Gravemarkers, including mausoleums; 
k. Any property while located away from the 
Described Location; or 
l. Property of roomers, boarders and other 
tenants. 
3. Property Removed To A Newly Acquired 
Principle Residence 
If you remove personal property from the De- 
scribed Location to a newly acquired principal 
residence, the Coverage C limit of liability will 
apply at each residence for the 30 days imme- 
diately after you begin to move the property 
there. This time period will not extend beyond 
the termination of this policy. Our liability is lim- 
ited to the proportion of the limit of liability that 
the value at each residence bears to the total 
value of all personal property covered by this 
policy. 
D. Coverage D – Fair Rental Value 
1. If a loss to property described in Coverage A, 
B or C by a Peril Insured Against under this 
policy makes that part of the Described Loca- 
tion rented to others or held for rental by you 
unfit for its normal use, we cover the fair rental 
value of that part of the Described Location 
rented to others or held for rental by you less 
any expenses that do not continue while that 
part of the Described Location rented or held 
for rental is not fit to live in. 
Payment will be for the shortest time required 
to repair or replace that part of the Described 
Location rented or held for rental. 
2. If a civil authority prohibits you from use of the 
Described Location as a result of direct dam- 
age to a neighboring location by a Peril Insured 
Against in this policy, we cover the Fair Rental 
Value loss for no more than two weeks. 
3. The periods of time referenced above are not 
limited by the expiration of this policy. 
4. We do not cover loss or expense due to can- 
cellation of a lease or agreement. 
The most we will pay for Coverage D – Loss of 
Use, for all items described above, is the total cov- 
erage amount for Coverage D listed on the Decla- 
rations Page. 

Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc., with its permission 
SOI 2002 DP Page 3 of 15 
 
E. Other Coverages 
1. Debris Removal 
We will pay your reasonable expense for the 
removal of: 
a. Debris of covered property if a Peril Insured 
Against that applies to the damaged prop- 
erty causes the loss; or 
b. Ash, dust or particles from a volcanic erup- 
tion that has caused direct loss to a building 
or property contained in a building. 
This expense is included in the limit of liability 
that applies to the damaged property. 
 
 
 
2. Reasonable Repairs 
a. In the event that covered property is dam- 
aged by a Peril Insured Against, we will pay 
the reasonable cost incurred by you for 
necessary measures taken solely to protect 
against further damage. 
b. If the measures taken involve repair to 
other damaged property, we will pay for 
those measures only if that property is cov- 
ered under this policy and the damage to 
that property is caused by a Peril Insured 
Against. This coverage does not: 
(1) Increase the limit of liability that applies 
to the covered property; or 
(2) Relieve you of your duties, in case of a 
loss to covered property, as set forth in 
Condition D.2. 
3. Property Removed 
We insure covered property against direct loss 
from any cause while being removed from the 
Described Location endangered by a Peril In- 
sured Against and for no more than 30 days 
while removed. 
This coverage does not change the limit of li- 
ability that applies to the property being re- 
moved. 
4. Trees, Shrubs And Other Plants 
We cover trees, shrubs, plants or lawns, on the 
Described Location for loss caused by the fol- 
lowing Perils Insured Against: 
a. Fire or lightning; 
b. Explosion; 
c. Riot or civil commotion; 
d. Aircraft; 
e. Vehicles not owned or operated by you or a 
resident of the Described Location; 
f. Vandalism or malicious mischief, including 
damage during a burglary or attempted bur- 
glary; or. 
g. Theft. 
We will pay up to 5% of the limit of liability that 
applies to the dwelling for all trees, shrubs, 
plants or lawns. No more than $500 of this 
limit will be paid for any one tree, shrub or 
plant. We do not cover property grown for 
commercial purposes. 
This coverage is additional insurance. 
5. Fire Department Service Charge 
We will pay up to $500 for your liability as- 
sumed by contract or agreement for fire de- 
partment charges incurred when the fire de- 
partment is called to save or protect covered 
property from a Peril Insured Against. We do 
not cover fire department service charges if the 
property is located within the limits of the city, 
municipality or protection district furnishing the 
fire department response. 
This coverage is additional insurance. No de- 
ductible applies to this coverage. 
6. Collapse 
a. With respect to this Other Coverage: 
(1) Collapse means an abrupt falling down 
or caving in of a building or any part of a 
building with the result that the building 
or part of the building cannot be occu- 
pied for its current intended purpose. 
(2) A building or any part of a building that 
is in danger of falling down or caving in 
is not considered to be in a state of col- 
lapse. 
(3) A part of a building that is standing is 
not considered to be in a state of col- 
lapse even if it has separated from an- 
other part of the building. 
(4) A building or any part of a building that 
is standing is not considered to be in a 
state of collapse even if it shows evi- 
dence of cracking, bulging, sagging, 
bending, leaning, settling, shrinkage or 
expansion. 
b. We insure for direct physical loss to cov- 
ered property involving collapse of a build- 
ing or any part of a building if the collapse 
was caused by one or more of the follow- 
ing: 
(1) The Perils Insured Against named under 
Coverage C. These perils apply to cov- 
ered building and personal property for 
loss insured by this Other Coverage; 

Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc., with its permission 
SOI 2002 DP Page 4 of 15 
 
(2) Decay that is hidden from view, unless 
the presence of such decay is known to 
you prior to collapse; 
(3) Insect or vermin damage that is hidden 
from view, unless the presence of such 
damage is known to you prior to col- 
lapse; 
(4) Weight of contents, equipment, animals 
or people; 
(5) Weight of rain which collects on a roof; 
or 
(6) Use of defective material or methods in 
construction, remodeling or renovation if 
the collapse occurs during the course of 
the construction, remodeling or renova- 
tion. 
c. Loss to an awning, fence, patio, deck, 
pavement, swimming    pool,  underground 
pipe, flue, drain, cesspool, septic tank, 
foundation, retaining wall, bulkhead, pier, 
wharf or dock is not included under b.(2) 
through (6) above unless the loss is a direct 
result of the collapse of a building or any 
part of a building. 
d. This coverage does not increase the limit of 
liability that applies to the damaged covered 
property. 
7. Glass Or Safety Glazing Material 
a. We cover: 
(1) The breakage of glass or safety glazing 
material which is part of a covered build- 
ing, storm door or storm window; 
(2) The breakage, caused directly by Earth 
Movement, of glass or safety glazing 
material which is part of a covered build- 
ing, storm door or storm window; and 
(3) The direct physical loss to covered 
property caused solely by the pieces, 
fragments or splinters of broken glass or 
safety glazing material which is part of a 
building, storm door or storm window. 
b. This coverage does not include loss: 
(1) To covered property which results be- 
cause the glass or safety glazing mate- 
rial has been broken, except as pro- 
vided in a.(3) above; or 
(2) On the Described Location if the dwell- 
ing has been vacant for more than 60 
consecutive days immediately before 
the loss, except when the breakage re- 
sults directly from Earth Movement as 
provided for in a.(2) above. A dwelling 
being constructed is not considered va- 
cant. 
c. Loss to glass covered under this Other Cov- 
erage 7. will be settled on the basis of re- 
placement with safety glazing materials 
when required by ordinance or law. 
d. This coverage does not increase the limit of 
liability that applies to the damaged prop- 
erty. 
8. Ordinance Or Law 
a. The Ordinance Or Law limit of liability de- 
termined in b. or c. below will apply with re- 
spect to the increased costs you incur due 
to the enforcement of any ordinance or law 
which requires or regulates: 
(1) The construction, demolition, remodel- 
ing, renovation or repair of that part of a 
covered building or other structure dam- 
aged by a Peril Insured Against; 
(2) The demolition and reconstruction of the 
undamaged part of a covered building or 
other structure, when that building or 
other structure must be totally demol- 
ished because of damage by a Peril In- 
sured Against to another part of that 
covered building or other structure; or 
(3) The remodeling, removal or replace- 
ment of the portion of the undamaged 
part of a covered building or other struc- 
ture necessary to complete the remodel- 
ing, repair or replacement of that part of 
the covered building or other structure 
damaged by a Peril Insured Against. 
b. If you are an owner of a Described Loca- 
tion, and that location: 
(1) Is insured for Coverage A or Unit- 
Owners Building Items, you may use up 
to 10% of the limit of liability that applies 
to Coverage A or Unit-Owners Building 
Items at each Described Location; or 
(2) Is not insured for Coverage A or Unit- 
Owners Building Items, you may use up 
to 10% of the total limit of liability that 
applies to Coverage B at each De- 
scribed Location. 
c. You may use all or part of this ordinance or 
law coverage to pay for the increased costs 
you incur to remove debris resulting from 
the construction, demolition, remodeling, 
renovation, repair or replacement of prop- 
erty as stated in a. above. 
d. We do not cover: 
(1) The loss in value to any covered build- 
ing or other structure due to the re- 
quirements of any ordinance or law; or 

Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc., with its permission 
SOI 2002 DP Page 5 of 15 
 
(2) The costs to comply with any ordinance 
or law which requires you or others to 
test for, monitor, clean up, remove, con- 
tain, treat, detoxify or neutralize, or in 
any way respond to, or assess the ef- 
fects of, pollutants in or on any covered 
building or other structure. 
Pollutants means any solid, liquid, gase- 
ous or thermal irritant or contaminant, 
including smoke, vapor, soot, fumes, ac- 
ids, alkalis, chemicals and waste. Waste 
includes materials to be recycled, re- 
conditioned or reclaimed. 
This coverage is additional insurance. 
9. "Fungi", Wet Or Dry Rot, Or Bacteria 
a. We will pay up to $10,000 for: 
(1) The total of all loss payable under Cover 
ages caused by "fungi", wet or dry rot, or 
bacteria; 
(2) The cost to remove "fungi", wet or dry 
rot, or bacteria from covered property 
covered under Coverages; 
(3) The cost to tear out and replace any part 
of the building or other covered property 
as needed to gain access to the "fungi", 
wet or dry rot, or bacteria; and 
(4) The cost of testing of air or property to 
confirm the absence, presence or level 
of "fungi", wet or dry rot, or bacteria 
whether performed prior to, during or af- 
ter removal, repair, restoration or re- 
placement. The cost of such testing will 
be provided only to the extent that there 
is a reason to believe that there is the 
presence of "fungi", wet or dry rot, or 
bacteria. 
b. The coverage described in a. only applies 
when such loss or costs are a result of a 
Peril Insured Against that occurs during the 
policy period and only if all reasonable 
means were used to save and preserve the 
property from further damage at and after 
the time the Peril Insured Against occurred. 
c. $10,000 is the most we will pay for the total 
of all loss or costs payable under this Other 
Coverage regardless of the: 
(1) Number of locations insured; or 
(2) Number of claims made. 
d. If there is covered loss or damage to cov- 
ered property, not caused, in whole or in 
part, by "fungi", wet or dry rot, or bacteria, 
loss payment will not be limited by the terms 
of this Other Coverage, except to the extent 
that "fungi", wet or dry rot, or bacteria 
causes an increase in the loss. Any such in- 
crease in the loss will be subject to the terms 
of this Other Coverage. 
This coverage does not increase the limit of 
liability applying to the damaged covered 
property. 
PERILS INSURED AGAINST 
A. Coverage A – Dwelling And Coverage B – 
Other Structures 
1. We insure against risk of direct physical loss to 
property described in Coverages A and B. 
2. We do not insure, however, for loss: 
a. Excluded under General Exclusions; 
b. Involving collapse, except as provided in 
Other Coverage 6. Collapse; or 
c. Caused by: 
(1) Freezing of a plumbing, heating, air 
conditioning or automatic fire protective 
sprinkler system or of a household ap- 
pliance, or by discharge, leakage or 
overflow from within the system or ap- 
pliance caused by freezing. This provi- 
sion does not apply if you have used 
reasonable care to: 
(a) Maintain heat in the building; or 
(b) Shut off the water supply and drain 
all systems and appliances of water; 
However, if the building is protected by 
an automatic fire protective sprinkler 
system, you must use reasonable care 
to continue the water supply and main- 
tain heat in the building for coverage to 
apply. 
For purposes of this provision a plumb- 
ing system or household appliance does 
not include a sump, sump pump or re- 
lated equipment or a roof drain, gutter, 
downspout or similar fixtures or equip- 
ment. 
(2) Freezing, thawing, pressure or weight of 
water or ice, whether driven by wind or 
not, to a: 
(a) Fence, pavement, patio or swimming 
pool; 
(b) Footing, foundation, bulkhead, wall, 
or any other structure or device, that 
supports all or part of a building or 
other structure; 

Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc., with its permission 
SOI 2002 DP Page 6 of 15 
 
(c) Retaining wall or bulkhead that does 
not support all or part of a building or 
other structure; or 
(d) Pier, wharf or dock; 
(3) Theft of property not part of a covered 
building or structure; 
(4) Theft in or to a dwelling or structure 
under construction; 
(5) Wind, hail, ice, snow or sleet to: 
(a) Outdoor radio and television anten- 
nas and aerials including their lead- 
in wiring, masts or towers; or 
(b) Trees, shrubs, plants or lawns; 
(6) Vandalism and malicious mischief, theft 
or attempted theft, and any ensuing loss 
caused by any intentional and wrongful 
act committed in the course of the van- 
dalism or malicious mischief, theft or at- 
tempted theft, if the dwelling has been 
vacant for more than 60 consecutive 
days immediately before the loss. A 
dwelling being constructed is not con- 
sidered vacant; 
(7) Continuous or  repeated seepage or 
leakage of water or steam from a: 
(a) heating, air conditioning or automatic 
fire protective sprinkler system; 
(b) household appliance; or 
(c) plumbing system, including from, 
within or around any shower stall, 
shower bath, tub installation, or other 
plumbing fixture, including  their 
walls, ceilings and floors; 
which occurs over a period of time. If 
loss to    covered  property  is  caused  by 
water or steam not otherwise excluded, 
we will cover the cost of tearing out and 
replacing any part of the building neces- 
sary to repair the system or appliance. 
We do not cover loss to the system or 
appliance from which the water or steam 
escaped. 
(8) Any of the following: 
(a) Wear and tear, marring, deteriora- 
tion; 
(b) Mechanical breakdown, latent de- 
fect, inherent vice, or any quality in 
property that causes it to damage or 
destroy itself; 
(c) Smog, rust or other corrosion, or 
yeast; 
(d) Smoke from agricultural smudging or 
industrial operations; 
(e) Discharge, dispersal, seepage, mi- 
gration release or escape of pollut- 
ants unless the discharge, dispersal, 
seepage, migration, release or es- 
cape is itself caused by a Peril In- 
sured Against named under Cover- 
age C. 
Pollutants means any solid, liquid, 
gaseous or thermal irritant or con- 
taminant, including smoke, vapor, 
soot, fumes, acids, alkalis, chemicals 
and waste. Waste includes materials 
to be recycled, reconditioned or re- 
claimed; 
(f) Settling, shrinking, bulging or expan- 
sion, including resultant cracking, of 
bulkheads, pavements, patios, foot- 
ings, foundations, walls, floors, roofs 
or ceilings; or 
(g) Birds, vermin, rodents, insects or 
domestic animals. 
Exception To c.(8) 
Unless the loss is otherwise excluded, we 
cover loss to property covered under Coverage 
A or B resulting from an accidental discharge 
or overflow of water or steam from within a: 
(i) Storm drain, or water, steam or sewer pipe, 
off the Described Location; or 
(ii) Plumbing, heating, air conditioning or auto- 
matic fire protective sprinkler system or 
household appliance on the Described Lo- 
cation. This includes the cost to tear out 
and replace any part of a building, or other 
structure, on the Described Location, but 
only when necessary to repair the system 
or appliance. However, such tear out and 
replacement coverage only applies to other 
structures if the water or steam causes ac- 
tual damage to a building on the Described 
Location. 
We do not cover loss to the system or appli- 
ance from which this water or steam escaped. 
For the purposes of this provision, a plumbing 
system or household appliance does not in- 
clude a sump, sump pump or related equip- 
ment or roof drain, gutter, down spout or simi- 
lar fixtures or equipment. 
General Exclusion A.3. Water Damage, Para- 
graphs a. and c. that apply to surface water and 
water below the surface of ground do not apply to 
loss by water covered under c.(8) above. 
Under 2.b. and c. above, any ensuing loss to 
property described in Coverages A and B not ex- 
cluded or excepted in this policy is covered. 

Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc., with its permission 
SOI 2002 DP Page 7 of 15 
 
B. Coverage C – Personal Property 
We insure for direct physical loss to the property 
described in Coverage C caused by a peril listed 
below unless the loss is excluded in the General 
Exclusions. 
1. Fire Or Lightning 
2. Windstorm Or Hail 
This peril does not include loss to: 
a. Property contained in a building caused by 
rain, snow, sleet, sand or dust unless the 
direct force of wind or hail damages  the 
building causing an opening in a roof or wall 
and the rain, snow, sleet, sand or dust en- 
ters through this opening; 
b. Canoes and rowboats; or 
c. Trees, shrubs or plants. 
3. Explosion 
4. Riot Or Civil Commotion 
5. Aircraft 
This peril includes self-propelled missiles and 
spacecraft. 
6. Vehicles 
7. Smoke 
This peril means sudden and accidental dam- 
age from smoke, including the emission or 
puffback of smoke, soot, fumes or vapors from 
a boiler, furnace or related equipment. 
This peril does not include loss caused by 
smoke from agricultural smudging or industrial 
operations. 
8. Vandalism Or Malicious Mischief 
This peril does not include loss by pilferage, 
theft, burglary or larceny. 
9. Damage By Burglars 
a. This peril means damage to covered prop- 
erty caused by burglars. 
b. This peril does not include: 
(1) Theft of property; or 
(2) Damage caused by burglars to property 
on the Described Location if the dwelling 
has been vacant for more than 60 con- 
secutive days immediately before the 
damage occurs. A dwelling being con- 
structed is not considered vacant. 
10. Falling Objects 
This peril does not include loss to property 
contained in the building unless the roof or an 
outside wall of the building is first damaged by 
a falling object. Damage to the falling object it- 
self is not covered. 
11. Weight Of Ice, Snow Or Sleet 
This peril means weight of ice, snow or sleet 
which causes damage to property contained in 
a building. 
12. Accidental Discharge Or Overflow Of Water 
Or Steam 
a. This peril means accidental discharge or 
overflow of water or steam from within a 
plumbing, heating, air conditioning or auto- 
matic fire protective sprinkler system or 
from within a household appliance. 
b. This peril does not include loss: 
(1) To the system or appliance from which 
the water or steam escaped; 
(2) Caused by or resulting from freezing 
except as provided in Peril Insured 
Against 14. Freezing; or 
(3) On the Described Location caused by 
accidental discharge or overflow which 
occurs off the Described Location; 
(4) Caused by continuous or repeated 
seepage or leakage of water or steam 
from a: 
(1) heating, air conditioning or automatic 
fire protective sprinkler system; 
(2) household appliance; or 
(3) plumbing system, including from, 
within or around any shower stall, 
shower bath, tub installation, or other 
plumbing fixture, including  their 
walls, ceilings and floors; 
which occurs over a period of time. If 
loss to covered property is caused by 
water or steam not otherwise excluded, 
we will cover the cost of tearing out and 
replacing any part of the building neces- 
sary to repair the system or appliance. 
We do not cover loss to the system or 
appliance from which the water or steam 
escaped; or 
(5) While the dwelling is vacant or unoccu- 
pied for 60 days or more or being con- 
structed unless you have used reason- 
able care to shut off the water supply 
and drain the system and appliances of 
water. Systems and appliances of water 
do not include outdoor swimming pools 
or spas or outdoor irrigation wells. 
c. In this peril, a plumbing system or house- 
hold appliance does not include a sump, 
sump pump or related equipment; or a roof 
drain, gutter, downspout or similar fixtures 
or equipment. 

Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc., with its permission 
SOI 2002 DP Page 8 of 15 
 
d. General Exclusion A.3. Water Damage, 
Paragraphs a. and c. that apply to surface 
water and water below the surface of the 
ground do not apply to loss by water cov- 
ered under this peril. 
13. Sudden And Accidental Tearing Apart, 
Cracking, Burning Or Bulging 
This peril means sudden and accidental tear- 
ing apart, cracking, burning or bulging of a 
steam or hot water heating system, an air con- 
ditioning or automatic fire protective sprinkler 
system, or an appliance for heating water. 
We do not cover loss caused by or resulting 
from freezing under this peril. 
14. Freezing 
a. This peril means freezing of a plumbing, 
heating, air conditioning or automatic fire 
protective sprinkler system or of a house- 
hold appliance but only if you have used 
reasonable care to: 
(1) Maintain heat in the building; or 
(2) Shut off the water supply and drain all 
systems and appliances of water. 
However, if the building is protected by an 
automatic fire protective sprinkler system, 
you must use reasonable care to continue 
the water supply and maintain heat in the 
building for coverage to apply. 
b. In this peril, a plumbing system or house- 
hold appliance does not include a sump, 
sump pump or related equipment; or a roof 
drain, gutter, downspout or similar fixtures 
or equipment. 
15. Sudden And Accidental Damage From 
Artificially Generated Electrical Current 
This peril does not include loss to tubes, tran- 
sistors, electronic components or circuitry that 
are a part of appliances, fixtures, computers, 
home entertainment units or other types of 
electronic apparatus. 
16. Volcanic Eruption 
This peril does not include loss caused by 
earthquake, land shock waves or tremors. 
17. Sinkhole Collapse 
This peril means actual physical damage aris- 
ing out of, or caused by, sudden settlement or 
collapse of the earth supporting such property 
and only when such settlement or collapse re- 
sults from subterranean voids created by the 
action of water on limestone or  similar  rock 
formations. 
General Exclusion A.2. Earth Movement does 
not apply to this peril. 
GENERAL EXCLUSIONS 
A. We do not insure for loss caused directly or indi- 
rectly by any of the following. Such loss is ex- 
cluded regardless of any other cause or event 
contributing concurrently or in any sequence to the 
loss. These exclusions apply whether or not the 
loss event results in widespread damage or af- 
fects a substantial area. 
1. Ordinance Or Law 
Ordinance Or Law means any ordinance or law: 
a. Requiring or regulating the construction, 
demolition, remodeling, renovation or repair 
of property, including removal of any result- 
ing debris. This Exclusion A.1.a. does not 
apply to the amount of coverage that may 
be provided under Other Coverage 8. Ordi- 
nance Or Law; 
b. The requirements of which result in a loss 
in value to property; or 
c. Requiring you or others to test for, monitor, 
clean up, remove, contain, treat, detoxify or 
neutralize, or in any way respond to, or as- 
sess the effects of, pollutants. 
Pollutants means any solid, liquid, gaseous 
or thermal irritant or contaminant, including 
smoke, vapor, soot, fumes, acids, alkalis, 
chemicals and waste. Waste includes ma- 
terials to be recycled, reconditioned or re- 
claimed. 
This Exclusion A.1. applies whether or not the 
property has been physically damaged. 
2. Earth Movement 
Earth Movement means the sinking, rising, 
shifting, expanding or contracting of the earth, 
all whether combined with water or not. Earth 
movement includes but is not limited to earth- 
quake, landslide, mudflow, mudslide, “sink- 
hole”, subsidence, erosion or movement result- 
ing from improper compaction, site selection or 
any other external forces. Earth movement also 
includes volcanic explosion or lava flow. 
 
However, this exclusion does not apply to loss 
by “sinkhole” meaning the sudden settlement 
or collapse of the earth resulting from subter- 
ranean voids created by the action of water on 
limestone or similar rock formations. With re- 
gard to “sinkhole”, we do not insure against 
loss caused by abandonment of the property 
covered. 
We do insure for any direct loss by fire result- 
ing from earth movement, provided the result- 
ing fire loss is itself a loss incurred 

Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc., with its permission 
SOI 2002 DP Page 9 of 15 
 
3. Water Damage 
Water Damage means: 
a. Flood, surface water, waves, tidal water, 
overflow of a body of water or spray from 
any of these, whether or not driven by wind; 
b. Water or water-borne material which backs 
up through sewers or drains or which over- 
flows or is discharged from a sump, sump 
pump or related equipment; or 
c. Water or water-borne material below the 
surface  of  the  ground,  including  water 
which exerts pressure on or seeps or leaks 
through a building, sidewalk, driveway, 
foundation, swimming pool or other struc- 
ture; 
caused by or resulting from human or animal 
forces or any act of nature. 
Direct loss by fire or explosion resulting from 
water damage is covered. 
4. Power Failure 
Power Failure means the failure of power or 
other utility service if the failure takes place off 
the Described Location. But if the failure of 
power or other utility service results in a loss, 
from a Peril Insured Against on the Described 
Location, we will pay for the loss or damage 
caused by that Peril Insured Against. 
5. Neglect 
Neglect means your neglect to use all reason- 
able means to save and preserve property at 
and after the time of a loss. 
6. War 
War includes the following and any conse- 
quence of any of the following: 
a. Undeclared war, civil war, insurrection, 
rebellion or revolution; 
b. Warlike act by a military force or military 
personnel; 
c. Destruction or seizure or use for a military 
purpose. 
Discharge of a nuclear weapon will be deemed 
a warlike act even if accidental. 
7. Nuclear Hazard 
This Exclusion A.7. pertains to Nuclear Hazard 
to the extent set forth in the Nuclear Hazard 
Clause of the Conditions. 
8. Intentional Loss 
Intentional Loss means any loss arising out of 
any act you or any person or organization 
named as an additional insured commits or 
conspires to commit with the intent to cause a 
loss. 
In the event of such loss, no other insured per- 
son or organization is entitled to coverage, 
even persons or organizations who did not 
commit or conspire to commit the act causing 
the loss. 
9. Governmental Action 
Governmental Action means the destruction, 
confiscation or seizure of property described in 
A, B or C by order of any governmental or pub- 
lic authority. 
This exclusion does not apply to such acts or- 
dered by any governmental or public authority 
that are taken at the time of a fire to prevent its 
spread, if the loss caused by fire would be cov- 
ered under this policy. 
10. "Fungi", Wet Or Dry Rot, Or Bacteria 
"Fungi", Wet Or Dry Rot, Or Bacteria meaning 
the presence, growth, proliferation, spread or any 
activity of "fungi", wet or dry rot, or bacteria. 
This Exclusion does not apply: 
a. When "fungi", wet or dry rot, or bacteria 
results from fire or lightning; or 
b. To the extent coverage is provided for in the 
"Fungi", Wet Or Dry Rot, Or Bacteria Other 
Coverage with respect to loss caused by a 
Peril Insured Against other than fire or light- 
ning. 
Direct loss by a Peril Insured Against result 
ing from "fungi", wet or dry rot, or bacteria is 
covered. 
11. Existing Damage 
Existing Damage means any damage which 
occurred prior to policy inception regardless of 
whether such damages were apparent at the 
time of policy inception.. 
12. Windstorm Exterior Paint or Waterproofing 
Exterior Paint or Waterproofing means loss 
solely to paint or waterproofing material applied 
to the exterior of the building or structure. 
This Exclusion applies to coverage for any 
building or structure under this policy for loss 
caused by: 
a. Windstorm or hail; or 
b. Windstorm during a hurricane. 
A hurricane means a storm system that has 
been declared to be a hurricane by the Na- 
tional Hurricane Center of the National 
Weather Service. 
This exclusion does not apply to any policy lo- 
cated outside of the Citizens Wind eligible 
area. 

Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc., with its permission 
SOI 2002 DP Page 10 of 15 
 
B. We do not insure for loss to property described in 
Coverages A and B caused by any of the follow- 
ing. However, any ensuing loss to property de- 
scribed in Coverages A and B not precluded by 
any other provision in this policy is covered. 
1. Weather conditions. However, this exclusion 
only applies if weather conditions contribute in 
any way with a cause or event excluded in A. 
above to produce the loss. 
2. Acts or decisions, including the failure to act or 
decide, of any person, group, organization or 
governmental body. 
3. Faulty, inadequate or defective: 
a. Planning, zoning, development, surveying, 
siting; 
b. Design, specifications, workmanship, re- 
pair, construction,  renovation, remodeling, 
grading, compaction; 
c. Materials used in repair, construction, reno- 
vation or remodeling; or 
d. Maintenance; 
of part or all of any property whether on or off 
the Described Location. 
CONDITIONS 
A. Policy Period 
This policy applies only to loss which occurs dur- 
ing the policy period. 
B. Insurable Interest And Limit Of Liability 
Even if more than one person has an insurable in- 
terest in the property covered, we will not be liable 
in any one loss: 
1. For an amount greater than the interest of a 
person insured under this policy at the time of 
loss; or 
2. For more than the applicable limit of liability. 
C. Concealment Or Fraud 
With respect to all persons insured under this pol- 
icy, we provide no coverage for loss if, whether 
before or after a loss, one or more persons in- 
sured under this policy have: 
1. Intentionally concealed or misrepresented any 
material fact or circumstance; 
2. Engaged in fraudulent conduct; or 
3. Made false statements; 
relating to this insurance. 
D. Duties After Loss 
In case of a loss to covered property, we have no 
duty to provide coverage under this policy if the 
failure to comply with the following duties is preju- 
dicial to us. These duties must be performed ei- 
ther by you or your representative: 
1. Give prompt notice to us or our agent; 
2. Protect the property from further damage. If 
repairs to the property are required, you must: 
a. Make reasonable and necessary repairs to 
protect the property; and 
b. Keep an accurate record of repair ex- 
penses; 
3. Cooperate with us in the investigation of a 
claim; 
4. Prepare an inventory of damaged personal 
property showing the quantity, description, ac- 
tual cash value and amount of loss. Attach all 
bills, receipts and related documents that jus- 
tify the figures in the inventory; 
5. As often as we reasonably require: 
a. Show the damaged property; 
b. Provide us with records and documents we 
request and permit us to make copies; and 
c. Submit to examination under oath, while not 
in the presence of another named insured, 
and sign the same; 
6. Send to us, within 60 days after our request, 
your signed, sworn proof of loss which sets 
forth to the best of your knowledge and belief: 
a. The time and cause of loss; 
b. Your interest and that of all others in the 
property involved and all liens on the prop- 
erty; 
c. Other insurance which may cover the loss; 
d. Changes in title or occupancy of the prop- 
erty during the term of the policy; 
e. Specifications of damaged buildings and 
detailed repair estimates; 
f. The inventory of damaged personal prop- 
erty described in D.3.; 
g. Receipts for additional living expenses 
incurred and records that support the fair 
rental value loss. 
E. Loss Settlement 
In this Condition E., the terms "cost to repair or re- 
place" and "replacement cost" do not include the 
increased costs incurred to comply with the en- 
forcement of any ordinance or law except to the 
extent that coverage for these increased costs is 
provided in Other Coverage E.8. Ordinance Or 
Law. Covered property losses are settled as fol- 
lows: 
1. Property of the following types: 
a. Personal property; 

Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc., with its permission 
SOI 2002 DP Page 11 of 15 
 
b. Awnings, carpeting, household appliances, 
outdoor antennas and outdoor equipment, 
whether or not attached to buildings; and 
c. Structures that are not buildings; 
at actual cash value at the time of loss but not 
more than the amount required to repair or re- 
place. 
2. Buildings under Coverage A or B at replace- 
ment cost without deduction for depreciation, 
subject to the following: 
a. If, at the time of loss, the amount of insur- 
ance in this policy on the damaged building 
is 80% or more of the full replacement cost 
of the building immediately before the loss, 
we will pay the cost to repair or replace, af- 
ter application of any deductible and without 
deduction for depreciation, but not more 
than the least of the following amounts: 
(1) The limit of liability under this policy that 
applies to the building; 
(2) The replacement cost of that part of the 
building damaged with material of like 
kind and quality and for like use; or 
(3) The necessary amount actually spent to 
repair or replace the damaged building. 
If the building is rebuilt at a new premises, 
the cost described in (2) above is limited to 
the cost which would have been incurred if 
the building had been built at the original 
premises. 
b. If, at the time of loss, the amount of insur- 
ance in this policy on the damaged building 
is less than 80% of the full  replacement cost 
of the building immediately before the loss, 
we will pay the greater of the following 
amounts, but not more than the limit of li- 
ability under this policy that applies to the 
building: 
(1) The actual cash value of that part of the 
building damaged; or 
(2) That proportion of the cost to repair or 
replace,  after  application  of deductible 
and without deduction for depreciation, 
that part of the building damaged, which 
the total amount of insurance in this pol- 
icy on the damaged building bears to 
80% of the replacement cost of the 
building. 
c. To determine the amount of insurance 
required to equal 80% of the full replace- 
ment cost of the building immediately be- 
fore the loss, do not include the value of: 
(1) Excavations, footings, foundations, piers 
or any other structures or devices that 
support all or part of the building, which 
are below the undersurface of the low- 
est basement floor; 
(2) Those supports in (1) above which are 
below the surface of the ground inside 
the foundation walls, if there is no 
basement; and 
(3) Underground flues, pipes, wiring and 
drains. 
d. We will pay no more than the actual cash 
value of the damage until actual repair or 
replacement is complete. Once actual re- 
pair or replacement is complete, we will set- 
tle the loss as noted in 2.a. and b. above. 
However, if the cost to repair or replace the 
damage is both: 
(1) Less than 5% of the amount of insur- 
ance in this policy on the building; and 
(2) Less than $2,500; 
we will settle the loss as noted in 2.a. and 
b. above whether or not actual repair or re- 
placement is complete. 
e. You may disregard the replacement cost 
loss settlement provisions and make claim 
under this policy for loss to buildings on an 
actual cash value basis. You may then 
make claim for any additional liability ac- 
cording to the provisions of this Condition 
E. Loss Settlement, provided you notify us 
of your intent to do so within 180 days after 
the date of loss. 
3. For loss covered by the peril of Sinkhole Col- 
lapse, we will pay for losses to the property 
covered as defined in this policy; however, we 
will only pay the full amount of loss once the 
home is stabilized in accordance with the rec- 
ommended remedies outlined in the Geological 
Soil Analysis investigation which determined 
the sinkhole activity. 
F. Loss To A Pair Or Set 
In case of loss to a pair or set we may elect to: 
1. Repair or replace any part to restore the pair or 
set to its value before the loss; or 
2. Pay the difference between actual cash value 
of the property before and after the loss. 
G. Mediation or Appraisal 
If you and we fail to agree on the amount of loss, 
either may: 

Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc., with its permission 
SOI 2002 DP Page 12 of 15 
 
1. Demand a mediation of the loss in accordance 
with the rules established by the Florida De- 
partment of Financial Services. The loss 
amount must be $500 or more, prior to applica- 
tion of the deductible; or there must be a differ- 
ence of $500 or more between the loss settle- 
ment amount we offer and the loss settlement 
amount that you request. The settlement in the 
course of the mediation is binding only if both 
parties agree, in writing, on a settlement and, 
you have not rescinded the settlement within 3 
business days after reaching settlement. You 
may not rescind the settlement after cashing or 
depositing the settlement check or draft we 
provided to you. 
We will pay the cost of conducting any media- 
tion conference except when you fail to appear 
at a conference. That conference will then be 
rescheduled upon your payment of the media- 
tor's fee for that rescheduled conference. How- 
ever, if we fail to appear at a mediation confer- 
ence, we will pay your actual cash expenses 
you incur in attending the conference and also 
pay the mediator's fee for the rescheduled con- 
ference. 
2. Demand an appraisal of the loss. In this event, 
each party will choose a competent and impar- 
tial appraiser within 20 days after receiving a 
written request from the other. The two ap- 
praisers will choose an umpire. If they cannot 
agree upon an umpire within 15 days, you or 
we may request that the choice be made by a 
judge of a court of record in the state where the 
Described Location is located. The appraisers 
will separately set the amount of the loss. If the 
appraisers submit a written report of an agree- 
ment to us, the amount agreed upon will be the 
amount of the loss. If they fail to agree, they 
will submit their differences to the umpire. A 
decision agreed to by any two will set the 
amount of the loss. 
Each party will: 
a. Pay its own appraiser; and 
b. Bear the other expenses of the appraisal 
and umpire equally. 
If, however, we demanded the mediation and ei- 
ther party rejects the mediation results, you are 
not required to submit to, or participate in, any ap- 
praisal of the loss as a precondition to action 
against us for failure to pay the loss. 
H. Other Insurance And Service Agreement 
If property covered by this policy is also covered 
by: 
1. Other insurance, we will pay only the propor- 
tion of a loss caused by any peril insured 
against under this policy that the limit of liability 
applying under this policy bears to the total 
amount of fire insurance covering the property; 
or 
2. A service agreement, this insurance is excess 
over any amounts payable under any such 
agreement. Service agreement means a ser- 
vice plan, property restoration plan, home war- 
ranty or other similar service warranty agree- 
ment, even if it is characterized as insurance. 
I. Subrogation 
You may waive in writing before a loss all rights of 
recovery against any person. If not waived, we 
may require an assignment of rights of recovery 
for a loss to the extent that payment is made by 
us. 
If an assignment is sought, the person insured must 
sign and deliver all related papers and coop- erate 
with us. 
J. Suit Against Us 
No action can be brought against us unless there 
has been full compliance with all of the terms un- 
der this policy and the action is started within five 
years after the date of loss. 
K. Our Option 
We may, at our option, repair or replace any 
covered part or item of damaged property. If an 
identical replacement is not available, substitute 
replacement of equal or greater features and 
functions will be substituted. 
L. Loss Payment 
We will adjust all losses with you. We will pay you 
unless some other person is named in the policy 
or is legally entitled to receive payment. Loss will 
be payable: 
1. 20 days after we receive your proof of loss and 
reach written agreement with you; or. 
2. 60 days after we receive your proof of loss and: 
a. There is an entry of a final judgment; or 
b. There is a filing of an appraisal award or a 
mediation settlement with us. 
M. Abandonment Of Property 
We need not accept any property abandoned by 
you. 
N. Mortgage Clause 
1. If a mortgagee is named in this policy, any loss 
payable under Coverage A or B will be paid to 
the mortgagee and you, as interests appear. If 
more than one mortgagee is named, the order 
of payment will be the same as the order of 
precedence of the mortgages. 

Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc., with its permission 
SOI 2002 DP Page 13 of 15 
 
2. If we deny your claim, that denial will not apply 
to a valid claim of the mortgagee, if the mort- 
gagee: 
a. Notifies us of any change in ownership, 
occupancy or substantial change in risk of 
which the mortgagee is aware; 
b. Pays any premium due under this policy on 
demand if you have neglected to pay the 
premium; and 
c. Submits a signed, sworn statement of loss 
within 60 days after receiving notice from us 
of your failure to do so. Policy conditions re- 
lating to Paragraphs G. Appraisal, J. Suit 
Against Us and L. Loss Payment also apply 
to the mortgagee. 
3. If we decide to cancel or not to renew this policy, 
the mortgagee will be notified at least 10 days 
before the date cancellation or nonre- newal 
takes effect. 
4. If we pay the mortgagee for any loss and deny 
payment to you: 
a. We are subrogated to all the rights of the 
mortgagee granted under the mortgage on 
the property; or 
b. At our option, we may pay to the mortgagee 
the whole principal on the mortgage plus 
any accrued interest. In this event, we will 
receive a full assignment and transfer of the 
mortgage and all securities held as collat- 
eral to the mortgage debt. 
5. Subrogation will not impair the right of the 
mortgagee to recover the full amount of the 
mortgagee's claim. 
O. No Benefit To Bailee 
We will not recognize any assignment or grant any 
coverage that benefits a person or organization 
holding, storing or moving property for a fee re- 
gardless of any other provision of this policy. 
P. Cancellation 
1. You may cancel this policy at any time by re- 
turning it to us or by letting us know in writing 
of the date cancellation is to take effect. 
2. When this policy has been in effect for 90 days 
or less, we may cancel immediately if there has 
been a material misstatement or misrepresen- 
tation or failure to comply with underwriting re- 
quirements. 
3. We may also cancel this policy subject to the 
following provisions. A written cancellation no- 
tice, together with the specific reasons for can- 
cellation, will be delivered to you, or mailed to 
you at your mailing address shown in the Dec- 
larations. 
Proof of mailing will be sufficient proof of no- 
tice. 
a. When you have not paid the premium, we 
may cancel at any time by letting you know 
at least 10 days before the date cancella- 
tion takes effect. 
b. When this policy has been in effect for 90 
days or less, we may cancel for any reason, 
except we may not cancel: 
(1) On the basis of property insurance 
claims that are the result of an Act of 
God, unless we can demonstrate, by 
claims frequency or otherwise, that the 
insured has failed to take action rea- 
sonably necessary as requested by us 
to prevent recurrence of damage to the 
insured property; or 
(2) On the basis of filing claims for partial 
loss caused by sinkhole damage or clay 
shrinkage, regardless of whether this 
policy has been the subject of a sinkhole 
claim, or on the basis of the risk associ- 
ated with the occurrence of such a 
claim. However, we may cancel this pol- 
icy if: 
(a) The total of such property claim 
payments for this policy exceeds the 
current policy limits of coverage for 
property damage; or 
(b) You have failed to repair the struc- 
ture in accordance with the engineer- 
ing recommendations upon which 
any loss payment or policy proceeds 
were based. 
(3) On the basis of filing a single claim 
which is the result of water damage 
used as the sole reason for cancellation 
unless we can demonstrate you have 
failed to take action reasonably re- 
quested by us to prevent future similar 
occurrences to the insured property. 
Except as provided in Paragraphs P.2. and 
P.3.a. above, we will let you know of our 
action at least 20 days before the date can- 
cellation takes effect. 
c. When this policy has been in effect for more 
than 90 days, we may cancel: 
(1) If there has been a material misstate- 
ment; 
(2) If the risk has changed substantially 
since the policy was issued; 
(3) In the event of failure to comply with 
underwriting requirements established 
by us within 90 days of the  effective date 
of coverage; 

Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc., with its permission 
SOI 2002 DP Page 14 of 15 
 
(4) If the cancellation is for all insureds 
under policies of this type for a given 
class of insureds; 
(5) On the basis of property insurance 
claims that are the result of an Act of 
God, if we can demonstrate, by claims 
frequency or otherwise, that the insured 
has failed to take action reasonably 
necessary as requested by us to pre- 
vent recurrence of damage to the in- 
sured property; or 
(6) On the basis of filing of claims for partial 
loss caused by sinkhole damage or clay 
shrinkage, regardless of whether this 
policy has been the subject of a sinkhole 
claim, or on the basis of the risk associ- 
ated with the occurrence of such a 
claim, if: 
(a) The total of such property claim 
payments for this policy exceeds the 
current policy limits of coverage for 
property damage; or 
(b) You have failed to repair the struc- 
ture in accordance with the engineer- 
ing recommendations upon which 
any loss payment or policy proceeds 
were based. 
(7) On the basis of filing a single claim 
which is the result of water damage 
used as the sole reason for cancella- 
tion unless we can demonstrate you 
have failed to take action reasonably 
requested by us to prevent future 
similar occurrences to the insured 
property. 
This can be done by letting you know at 
least 90 days before the date cancellation 
takes effect. 
4. When this policy is cancelled, the premium for 
the period from the date of cancellation to the 
expiration date will be refunded pro rata. 
5. If the return premium is not refunded with the 
notice of cancellation or when this policy is re- 
turned to us, we will refund it within a reason- 
able time after the date cancellation takes ef- 
fect. 
Q.Nonrenewal 
We may elect not to renew this policy. However, 
we will not nonrenew this policy: 
1. On the basis of property insurance claims that 
are the result of an Act of God, unless we can 
demonstrate, by claims frequency or otherwise, 
that the insured has failed to take action rea- 
sonably necessary as requested by us to pre- 
vent recurrence of damage to the insured 
property; or 
2. On the basis of filing of claims for partial loss 
caused by sinkhole damage or clay shrinkage, 
regardless of whether this policy has been the 
subject of a sinkhole claim, or on the basis of 
the risk associated with the occurrence of such 
a claim. However, we may elect not to renew 
this policy if: 
a. The total of such property claim payments 
for this policy exceeds the current policy 
limits of coverage for property damage; or 
b. You have failed to repair the structure in 
accordance with the engineering recom- 
mendations upon which any loss payment 
or policy proceeds were based. 
3. On the basis of filing a single claim which is 
the result of water damage used as the sole 
reason for nonrenewal unless we can demon- 
strate you have failed to take action reasonably 
requested by us to prevent future similar occur- 
rences to the insured property. 
We may do so by delivering to you or mailing to 
you at your mailing address shown in the Declara- 
tions, written notice, together with the specific rea- 
sons for nonrenewal, at least 90 days before the 
expiration date of this policy. Proof of mailing will 
be sufficient proof of notice. 
R. Liberalization Clause 
If we make a change which broadens coverage 
under this edition of our policy without additional 
premium charge, that change will automatically 
apply to your insurance as of the date we imple- 
ment the change in your state, provided that this 
implementation date falls within 60 days prior to or 
during the policy period stated in the Declarations. 
This Liberalization Clause does not apply to 
changes implemented with a general program re- 
vision that includes both broadenings and restric- 
tions in coverage, whether that general program 
revision is implemented through introduction of: 
1. A subsequent edition of this policy; or 
2. An amendatory endorsement. 
S. Waiver Or Change Of Policy Provisions 
A waiver or change of a provision of this policy 
must be in writing by us to be valid. Our request 
for an appraisal or examination will not waive any 
of our rights. 

Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc., with its permission 
SOI 2002 DP Page 15 of 15 
 
T. Assignment 
Assignment of this policy will not be valid unless 
we give our written consent. 
U. Death 
If you die, we insure: 
1. Your legal representatives but only with re- 
spect to the property of the deceased covered 
under the policy at the time of death; 
2. With respect to your property, the person hav- 
ing proper temporary custody of the property 
until appointment and qualification of a legal 
representative. 
V. Nuclear Hazard Clause 
1. "Nuclear Hazard" means any nuclear reaction, 
radiation or radioactive contamination, all 
whether controlled or uncontrolled or however 
caused, or any consequence of any of these. 
2. Loss caused by the nuclear hazard will not be 
considered loss caused by fire, explosion, or 
smoke, whether these perils are specifically 
named in or otherwise included within the Per- 
ils Insured Against. 
3. This policy does not apply to loss caused di- 
rectly or indirectly by nuclear hazard, except 
that direct loss by fire resulting from the nu- 
clear hazard is covered. 
W. Recovered Property 
If you or we recover any property for which we 
have made payment under this policy, you or we 
will notify the other of the recovery. At your option, 
the property will be returned to or retained by you 
or it will become our property. If the recovered 
property is returned to or retained by you, the loss 
payment will be adjusted based on the amount 
you received for the recovered property. 
X. Volcanic Eruption Period 
One or more volcanic eruptions that occur within a 
72-hour period will be considered as one volcanic 
eruption. 
Y. Loss Payable Clause 
If the Declarations show a loss payee for certain 
listed insured personal property, that person is 
considered an insured in this policy with respect to 
that property. 
If we decide to cancel or not renew this policy, that 
loss payee will be notified in writing. 
Z.Renewal Notification 
If we elect to renew this policy, we will let you 
know, in writing: 
1. Of our decision to renew this policy; and 
2. The amount of renewal premium payable to us. 
This notice will be delivered to you or mailed to 
you at your mailing address shown in the Declara- 
tions at least 45 days before the expiration date of 
this policy. Proof of mailing will be sufficient proof 
of notice. 
 
 
 
In WITNESS WHEREOF, Southern Oak Insur- 
ance Company has executed and attested these 
presents. 
 
 
Chief Executive Officer 
Southern Oak Insurance Company 



Southern Oak Insurance Company 
DWELLING 
SOI 2016 DL 
Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc., with its permission 
SOI 2016 DL Page 1 of 9 
 
 
 
 
PERSONAL LIABILITY 
 
AGREEMENT 
We will provide the insurance described in this policy 
in return for the premium and compliance with all 
applicable provisions of this policy. 
DEFINITIONS 
A. In this policy, "you" and "your" refer to the "named 
insured" shown in the Declarations and the spouse 
if a resident of the same household.  "We",  "us" 
and "our" refer to the Company providing this 
insurance. 
B. In addition, certain words and phrases are defined 
as follows: 
1. "Aircraft Liability", "Hovercraft Liability", "Motor 
Vehicle Liability" and "Watercraft Liability", subject to 
the provisions in b. below, mean the following: 
a. liability for "bodily injury" or "property 
damage" arising out of the: 
(1) ownership of such vehicle or craft by an 
"insured"; 
(2) maintenance, occupancy, operation, 
use, loading or unloading of such 
vehicle or craft by any person; 
(3) entrustment of such vehicle or craft by 
an "insured" to any person; 
(4) failure to supervise or negligent super- 
vision of any person involving such 
vehicle or craft by an "insured"; or 
(5) vicarious liability, whether or not 
imposed by law, for the actions of a 
child or  minor  involving such vehicle  or 
craft. 
b. For the purpose of this definition: 
(1) aircraft means any contrivance used or 
designed for flight except model or 
hobby aircraft not used or designed to 
carry people or cargo; 
(2) hovercraft means a self-propelled 
motorized ground effect vehicle and 
includes, but is not limited to,  flarecraft 
and air cushion vehicles; 
(3) watercraft means a craft principally 
designed to be propelled on or in water 
by wind, engine power or electric motor; 
and 
(4) motor vehicle means a "motor vehicle" 
as defined in 7. below. 
2. "Bodily injury" means bodily harm, sickness or 
disease, including required care, loss of 
services and death that results. 
3. "Business" means: 
a. a trade, profession or occupation engaged 
in on a full-time, part-time or occasional 
basis; or 
b. any other activity engaged in for money or 
other compensation, except the following: 
(1) one or more activities, not described in 
b.(2) through b.(4) below, for which 
no "insured" receives more than $2,000 
in total compensation for the 12 
months before   the   beginning   of   the 
policy period; 
(2) volunteer activities for which no money 
is received other than payment for 
expenses incurred to perform the 
activity; 
(3) providing home day care services for 
which no compensation is received, 
other than the mutual exchange of such 
services; or 
(4) the rendering of home day care services 
to a relative of an "insured". 
4. "Employee" means an employee of an 
"insured", or an employee leased to an 
"insured"  by a labor leasing firm under an 
agreement between an "insured" and the 
labor leasing firm,  whose duties are other 
than those performed    by a "residence 
employee". 
5. "Insured" means: 
a. you and residents of your household who 
are: 
(1) your relatives; or 
(2) other persons under the age of 21 and 
in the care of any person named above. 
b. A student enrolled in school full time, as 
defined by the school, who was a resident 
of your household before moving out to 
attend school, provided the student is 
under the age of: 
(1) 24 and your relative; or 
(2) 21 and in your care or the care of a 
person described in a.(1) above. 
 
 
 

Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc., with its permission 
SOI 2016 DL Page 2 of 9 
 
Southern Oak Insurance Company 
DWELLING 
 
 
 
c. with respect to animals or watercraft to 
which this policy applies, any person or 
organization legally responsible for these 
animals    or watercraft which are  owned 
by you or any person included in a. or b. 
above. "Insured" does not mean a 
person or organization using or having 
custody of these animals or watercraft in 
the course of any "business" or without 
consent of the owner. 
d. with respect to a "motor vehicle" to 
which this policy applies: 
(1) persons while engaged in your 
employ or that of any person included 
in a. or b. above; or 
(2) other persons using the vehicle on 
an "insured location" with your 
consent. 
Throughout this policy, when the word an 
immediately precedes the word "insured", the 
words an "insured" together mean one or more 
"insureds". 
6. "Insured location" means: 
a. the Described Location as indicated on the 
policy declarations page; 
b. any premises used by you in connection 
with a premises described in a. above; 
c. any part of a premises: 
(1) not owned by an "insured"; and 
(2) where an "insured" is temporarily 
residing; 
d. vacant land, other than farm land, owned 
by or rented to an "insured"; 
e. land owned by or rented to an "insured" on 
which a one, two, three or four family 
dwelling is being built as a residence for 
an "insured"; 
f. individual or family cemetery plots or burial 
vaults of an "insured"; or 
g. any part of a premises occasionally rented 
to an "insured" for other than "business" 
use. 
7. "Motor vehicle" means: 
a. a self-propelled land or amphibious vehicle; 
or 
b. any trailer or semitrailer which is being 
carried on, towed by or hitched for towing 
by a vehicle described in a. above. 
8. "Occurrence" means an accident, including 
continuous or repeated exposure to 
substantially the same general harmful 
conditions,   which results, during the policy 
period, in: 
a. "bodily injury"; or 
b. "property damage". 
9. "Property damage" means physical injury to, 
destruction of, or loss of use of tangible 
property. 
10. "Residence employee" means: 
a. an employee of an "insured", or an employee 
leased to an "insured" by a labor  leasing 
firm, under an agreement between   an 
"insured" and the labor leasing firm,  whose 
duties are related to the maintenance or use 
of the "residence premises",    including 
household or domestic services; or 
b. one who performs similar duties elsewhere 
not related to the "business" of an "insured". 
A "residence employee" does not include a 
temporary employee who is furnished to an 
"insured" to substitute for a permanent 
"residence  employee" on leave or  to  meet 
seasonal or short-term workload conditions. 
11. "Residence premises" means: 
a. the one family dwelling where you reside; 
b. the two, three or four family dwelling where 
you reside in at least one  of  the  family  units; 
or 
c. that part of any other building where you 
reside; 
"Residence premises" also includes other 
structures and grounds at that location. 
12. “Fungi”  means  any  type  or  form  of  fungus, 
including  mold  or  mildew,  and  any  mycotoxins, 
spores, scents or by-products produced or 
released by fungi. 
This does not include any fungi that are, are 
on,  or are contained in a good or product 
intended for consumption. 
13. ”Personal   Watercraft”   means   watercraft 
designed    to    carry    one to    three    people, 
propelled  by  a  water  jet  pump  powered  by  an 
internal  combustion   engine,  and capable   of 
speeds   greater   than   25   MPH.  “Personal 
watercraft”  includes  but  is  not  limited  to 
watercraft  often  referred  to  as  jet  skis,  wave 
runners and similar watercraft. 
 
 
 
 

Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc., with its permission 
SOI 2016 DL Page 3 of 9 
 
Southern Oak Insurance Company 
DWELLING 
 
 
LIABILITY COVERAGES 
A. Coverage L – Personal Liability 
If a claim is made or a suit is brought against an 
"insured" for damages because of "bodily injury" or 
"property damage" caused by an "occurrence" to 
which this coverage applies, we will: 
1. Pay up to our limit of liability for the damages 
for which an "insured" is legally liable. 
Damages include prejudgment interest 
awarded against an "insured". 
2. Provide a defense at our expense by counsel 
of our choice, even if the suit is groundless, 
false or fraudulent. We may investigate and 
settle any claim or suit that we decide is 
appropriate. Our duty to settle or defend 
ends   when our limit of liability for the 
"occurrence"  has been exhausted by payment 
of a judgment or settlement. 
B. Coverage M – Medical Payments To Others 
We will pay the necessary medical expenses that 
are incurred or medically ascertained within three 
years from the date of an accident causing "bodily 
injury".  
Medical expenses means reasonable charges for: 
• medical,  
• surgical,  
• x-ray,  
• dental,  
• ambulance,  
• hospital,  
• professional nursing,  
• prosthetic devices, and  
• funeral services.  
This coverage does  not apply to you or regular 
residents of your   household except "residence 
employees".  
As to others, this coverage applies only: 
1. To a person on the "insured location" with the 
permission of an "insured"; or 
2. To a person off the "insured location", if the 
"bodily injury": 
a. arises out of a condition on the "insured 
location" or the ways immediately adjoining; 
b. is caused by the activities of an "insured"; 
or 
c. is caused by a "residence employee" in the 
course of the "residence employee's" 
employment by an "insured". 
 
 
 
EXCLUSIONS 
A. "Motor Vehicle Liability" 
1. Coverages L and M do not apply to any "motor 
vehicle liability" if, at the time and place of an 
"occurrence", the involved "motor vehicle": 
a. is registered for use on public roads or 
property; 
b. is not registered for use on public roads 
or   property, but such registration is 
required  by a law, or regulation issued by 
a government agency, for it to be used at 
the place of the "occurrence"; or 
c. Is being: 
(1) operated in, or practicing for, any 
prearranged or organized race, speed 
contest or other competition; 
(2) rented to others; 
(3) used to  carry persons or cargo for a 
charge; or 
(4) used for any "business" purpose except 
for a motorized golf cart while on a 
golfing facility. 
2. If Exclusion A.1. does  not apply, there is still 
no coverage for "motor vehicle liability" unless 
the "motor vehicle" is: 
a. used solely to service the “insured 
location”; 
b. designed to assist the handicapped and, at 
the time of an "occurrence", it is: 
(1) being used to assist a handicapped 
person; or 
(2) parked on an "insured location". 
c. designed for recreational use off public 
roads and: 
(1) not owned by an "insured"; or 
(2) owned by an "insured" provided the 
"occurrence" takes place on an 
"insured     location" as defined in 
Definitions B. 6.a., c., d. or g. 
d. a motorized golf cart that is owned by an 
"insured", designed to carry up to 4 
persons, not built or modified after 
manufacture to exceed a speed of 25 miles 
per hour  on level ground and, at the time 
of an "occurrence", is within the legal 
boundaries of: 
(1) A golfing facility and is parked or 
stored   there, or being used by an 
"insured" to: 
(a) Play the game of golf or for 
other  recreational or leisure activity 
allowed by the facility; 
(b) Travel to or from an area where 
"motor vehicles" or golf carts are 
parked or stored; or 

Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc., with its permission 
SOI 2016 DL Page 4 of 9 
 
Southern Oak Insurance Company 
DWELLING 
 
 
(c) Cross public roads at designated 
points to access other parts of the 
golfing facility. 
(2) A private residential community, including 
its public roads upon which a motorized golf 
cart can legally travel, which is subject to 
the authority of a property owners 
association and contains an "insured's" 
residence. 
e. In dead storage  on an “insured location”. 
B. "Watercraft Liability" 
1. Coverages L and M do not apply to any 
"watercraft liability" if, at the time of an 
"occurrence", the involved watercraft is being: 
a. operated    in,    or    practicing for, any 
prearranged or organized race, speed 
contest or other competition. This exclusion 
does not  apply to a sailing vessel or a 
predicted log cruise; 
b. rented to others; 
c. used  to  carry  persons  or  cargo  for  a 
charge;  
d. used for any "business" purpose. 
2. If Exclusion B.1. does not apply, there is still no 
coverage for "watercraft liability" unless, at the 
time of the "occurrence", the watercraft: 
a. is stored; 
b. is a sailing vessel, with or without auxiliary 
power, that is: 
(1) Less than 26 feet in overall length; or 
(2) 26 feet or more in overall length and not 
owned by or rented to an "insured". 
c. is not a “personal watercraft” or sailing 
vessel and is powered by: 
(1) an inboard or inboard-outdrive engine or 
motor, including those that power a 
water jet pump, of: 
(a) 50 horsepower or less and not 
owned by an "insured"; or 
(b) more than 50 horsepower and not 
owned by or rented to an "insured". 
(2) one or more outboard engines or 
motors with: 
(a) 25 total horsepower or less; 
(b) more than 25 horsepower if the 
outboard engine or motor is not 
owned by an "insured"; 
(c) more than 25 horsepower if the 
outboard engine or motor is owned 
by an "insured" who acquired it 
during the policy period; or 
(d) more than 25 horsepower if the 
outboard engine or motor is 
owned    by an "insured" who 
acquired it before  the  policy  period, 
but only if: 
(i) you declare them at policy 
inception; or 
(ii) your intent to insure them 
is  reported to us in writing 
within 45    days after you 
acquire them. 
The coverages in (c) and (d) above 
apply for the policy period. 
Horsepower means the maximum 
power  rating assigned to the engine 
or motor by the manufacturer. 
C. "Aircraft Liability" 
This policy does not cover "aircraft liability". 
D. "Hovercraft Liability" 
This policy does not cover "hovercraft 
liability". 
E. Coverage L – Personal Liability And 
Coverage M – Medical Payments To Others 
Coverages L and M do not apply to the following: 
1. Expected Or Intended Injury 
"Bodily injury" or "property damage" 
which is   expected or intended by an 
"insured" even if   the resulting "bodily 
injury" or "property damage": 
a. is of a different kind, quality or degree 
than initially expected or intended; or 
b. is sustained by a different person, 
entity,  real or personal property, than 
initially expected or intended. 
However, this Exclusion E.1. does not 
apply to "bodily injury" resulting from the 
use of reasonable force by an "insured" to 
protect persons or property. 
2. "Business" 
a. "Bodily injury" or "property damage" 
arising  out of or in connection with a 
"business"  conducted from an "insured 
location" or engaged in by an "insured", 
whether or not the  "business" is owned 
or operated by an "insured" or employs 
an "insured". 
This Exclusion E.2. applies but is not 
limited to an act or omission, 
regardless of its nature or 
circumstance, involving a service   or 
duty rendered, promised, owed, or 
implied to be provided because of the 
nature of the "business". 
b. This Exclusion E.2. does not apply to: 
(1) The rental or holding for rental of an 
"insured location"; 
(a) on an occasional basis if used 
only as a residence; 
(b) in part for use only as a 
residence,  unless a single family 

Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc., with its permission 
SOI 2016 DL Page 5 of 9 
 
Southern Oak Insurance Company 
DWELLING 
 
 
unit is intended   for   use   by the 
occupying family to lodge more than 
two roomers or boarders; or 
(c) in part, as an office, school, studio or 
private garage. 
(2) an "insured" under the age of 21 years 
involved in a part-time or occasional, 
self-employed "business" with no 
employees. 
3. Professional Services 
"Bodily injury" or "property damage" arising out 
of the rendering of or failure to render 
professional services. 
4. "Insured's" Premises Not An "Insured 
Location" 
"Bodily injury" or "property damage" arising out 
of a premises: 
a. owned by an "insured"; 
b. rented to an "insured"; or 
c. rented to others by an "insured"; 
that is not an "insured location". 
5. War 
"Bodily injury" or "property damage" caused 
directly or indirectly by war, including the 
following and any consequence of any of the 
following: 
a. undeclared   war,   civil   war,   insurrection, 
rebellion or revolution; 
b. warlike act by a military force or military 
personnel; or 
c. destruction,  seizure  or  use  for  a  military 
purpose. 
Discharge of a nuclear weapon will be deemed 
a warlike act even if accidental. 
6. Communicable Disease 
"Bodily injury" or "property damage" which 
arises out of the transmission of a 
communicable disease by an "insured". 
7. Sexual Molestation, Corporal Punishment Or 
Physical Or Mental Abuse 
"Bodily injury" or "property damage" arising out 
of sexual molestation, corporal punishment or 
physical or mental abuse. 
8. Controlled Substance 
"Bodily injury" or "property damage" arising out 
of the use, sale, manufacture, delivery, transfer 
or possession by any person of a Controlled 
Substance(s) as defined under federal law.  
Controlled Substances include but are not 
limited to: 
• cocaine,  
• LSD,  
• marijuana, and  
• all narcotic drugs.  
However, this exclusion does not apply  to the 
legitimate use of prescription drugs by a 
person following the orders of a licensed 
health care professional. 
9. Animal Liability 
“Bodily injury” or “property damage” caused 
directly  or  indirectly  by  animals  owned  by 
you, an “insured”,  tenant or  are  kept  at  the 
“insured location”.  Such loss is excluded for 
all activity or conduct of the insured when an 
animal  owned  or  kept  at  the  “insured 
location” is involved in any way with the loss 
either   directly   or   indirectly.   Such   loss   is 
excluded  regardless  of  any  other  cause  or 
event   contributing   concurrently   or   in   any 
sequence to the loss. 
10. "Fungi", Wet Or Dry Rot, Yeast Or Bacteria 
"Fungi",  Wet  Or  Dry  Rot,  Yeast  Or  Bacteria 
meaning the presence, growth, proliferation, 
spread or any activity of "fungi", wet or dry rot, 
yeast or bacteria. 
11. Excessive Liability Exposure 
“Bodily  injury”  or  “property  damage”  caused 
directly    or    indirectly    by    the    ownership, 
maintenance  or  use  by  anyone  of  any  of  the 
following equipment and/or accessories: 
a.   swimming pool slides, 
b.   diving boards, 
c.   trampolines,  
d.   skateboard, or  
e.   bike ramps. 
Such loss is excluded regardless of any other 
cause  or  event  contributing  concurrently  or  in 
any sequence to the loss; 
12. Coverage  E – Personal  Liability and 
Coverage  F – Medical  Payments  to Others 
do not apply to “bodily injury” or “property 
damage” arising: 
a. out of the ingestion of paint that has lead in it; 
b. out of the ingestion of paint that has lead 
compounds in it; 
c. out of the inhalation of paint that has lead in it; 
d. out of the inhalation of paint that has lead 
compounds in it; 
e.  from radon, or any other substance that emits 
radiation; 
f.   in any manner (including liability imposed by 
law) from the discharge, disposal, release or 
escape of: 
(1)  vapors or fumes; 
(2)  gas or oil; 
(3)   toxic chemicals, liquid or gas; 
(4)  waste materials; and 
(5)  irritants, contaminants or pollutants.  
All other conditions are the same. 
13. Criminal Acts 

Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc., with its permission 
SOI 2016 DL Page 6 of 9 
 
Southern Oak Insurance Company 
DWELLING 
 
 
“Bodily injury” or “property damage” arising out 
of criminal acts, meaning any and all criminal 
acts performed by any “insured” regardless of 
whether the consequences of those acts were 
intended or anticipated. 
 
14. Assault and Battery 
“Bodily injury” or “property damage” arising  out  of 
assault  or  battery  committed  by  or  at  the  direction 
of an “insured”. 
Exclusions A. "Motor Vehicle Liability", B. "Water- 
craft Liability", C. "Aircraft Liability", D. "Hovercraft 
Liability" and E.4. "Insured's" Premises Not An 
"Insured Location" do not apply to "bodily injury" to a 
"residence employee" arising out of and in the course 
of the "residence employee's" employment by  an 
"insured". 
F. Coverage L – Personal Liability.   
Coverage L does not apply to: 
1. Liability: 
a. for any loss assessment charged against 
you as a member of an association, 
corporation or community of property owners; 
b. under any contract or agreement entered 
into by an "insured". However, this 
exclusion does not apply to written contracts: 
(1) that directly relate to the ownership, 
maintenance or use of an "insured 
location"; or 
(2) where the liability of others is assumed 
by you prior to an "occurrence"; 
unless excluded in a. above or elsewhere in 
this policy. 
2. "Property damage" to property owned by an 
"insured". This includes costs or expenses 
incurred by an "insured" or others to: 
a. repair,  
b. replace,  
c. enhance,  
d. restore, or  
e. maintain  
such property to prevent injury to a person or 
damage to  property of others, whether on or 
away from an "insured location". 
3. Property damage" to property rented to, 
occupied or used by or in the care of an 
"insured".   This exclusion does not apply to 
"property  damage" caused by fire, smoke or 
explosion. 
4. "Bodily injury" to any person eligible to receive 
any benefits voluntarily provided or required to 
be provided by an "insured" under any: 
a. workers' compensation law; 
b. non-occupational disability law; or 
c. occupational disease law. 
5. "Bodily injury" or "property damage" for 
which an "insured" under this policy: 
a.   is also an insured under a nuclear 
energy liability policy issued by the: 
(1) Nuclear Energy Liability Insurance 
Association; 
(2) Mutual  Atomic  Energy  Liability  
Underwriters; 
(3) Nuclear Insurance Association of 
Canada; 
or any of their successors. 
b. would be an insured under such a 
policy  but for the exhaustion of its limit 
of liability. 
6. "Bodily injury" to you or an "insured" as defined 
under Definitions 5.a. or b. 
This exclusion also applies to any claim made 
or suit brought against you or an "insured": 
a. to repay; or 
b. share damages with; 
another person who may be obligated to pay 
damages because of "bodily injury" to an 
"insured". 
G. Coverage M – Medical Payments To Others 
Coverage M does not apply to "bodily injury": 
1. to a "residence employee" if the "bodily 
injury": 
a. occurs off the "insured location"; and 
b. does not arise out of or in the course of 
the  "residence employee's" employment 
by an "insured". 
2. to any person eligible to receive benefits 
voluntarily provided or required to be 
provided under any: 
a. workers' compensation law; 
b. non-occupational disability law; or  
c. occupational disease law. 
3. from any: 
a. nuclear reaction; 
b. nuclear radiation; or 
c. radioactive contamination; 
all whether controlled or uncontrolled or 
however caused; or 
d. any consequence of any of these. 
4. to any person, other than a "residence 
employee" of an "insured", regularly 
residing on any   part   of   the   "insured 
location". 
H. This  insurance   does  not  apply  to “Personal 
Injury”: 
1. caused by or at the direction    of an 

Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc., with its permission 
SOI 2016 DL Page 7 of 9 
 
Southern Oak Insurance Company 
DWELLING 
 
 
“insured”  with the knowledge  that the act 
would violate the rights of another and would 
inflict “personal injury”; 
2.  arising  out of oral or written  publication  of 
material,  if done  by or at the direction  of an 
“insured”  with knowledge of its falsity; 
3. arising out of oral or written publication of 
material whose first publication took place 
before the beginning of the policy period; 
4.  arising out of a criminal act committed by or at 
the direction of an “insured”; 
5. arising  out of liability  assumed  by an 
“insured”  under any contract  or agreement  
except  any indemnity obligation assumed by 
an “insured” under a written contract directly 
relating to the ownership maintenance or use 
of the premises; 
6. sustained by any person as a result of an 
offense directly or indirectly related to the 
employment  of this person by an “insured”; 
7. arising out of or in connection with a “business” 
conducted from an “insured location” or 
engaged in by an “insured,” whether or not the 
“business” is owned or operated by an “insured” 
or employs an “insured.” 
 
This exclusion  applies but is not limited to an 
act or omission,  regardless  of its nature or 
circumstance, involving a service or duty 
rendered, promised, owed or implied to be 
provided because of the nature of the “business.” 
ADDITIONAL COVERAGES 
We  cover  the  following  in  addition  to  the  limits  of 
liability: 
A. Claim Expenses.  We pay: 
1. expenses we incur and costs taxed against 
an "insured" in any suit we defend; 
2. premiums on bonds required in a suit we 
defend, but not for bond amounts more than 
the  Coverage L limit of liability. We need not 
apply for or furnish any bond; 
3. reasonable expenses incurred by an "insured" 
at our request, including actual loss of 
earnings  (but not loss of other income) up to 
$250 per   day, for assisting us in the 
investigation or defense of a claim or suit; and 
4. interest on the entire judgment which 
accrues after entry of the judgment and 
before we pay or tender, or deposit in court 
that part of the  judgment which does not 
exceed the limit of liability that applies. 
B. First Aid Expenses. We will pay expenses for 
first aid to others incurred by an "insured" for 
"bodily injury" covered  under this policy. We will 
not pay for first aid to an "insured". 
C. Damage To Property Of Others. 
1. We will pay, at replacement cost, up to 
$1,000   per "occurrence" for "property 
damage" to  property of others caused by 
an "insured". 
2. We will not pay for "property damage": 
a. caused intentionally by an "insured" 
who is 13 years of age or older; 
b. to property owned by an "insured"; 
c. to property owned by or rented to a 
tenant  of an "insured" or a resident in 
your household; or 
d. arising out of: 
(1) a "business" engaged in by an 
"insured"; 
(2) any act or omission in connection 
with a   premises owned, rented or 
controlled by an "insured", other than 
the "insured location"; or 
(3) the ownership, maintenance, 
occupancy, operation, use, loading or 
unloading of aircraft, hovercraft, 
watercraft or "motor vehicles". 
This Exclusion d.(3) does not apply 
to a "motor vehicle" that: 
(a) is designed for recreational use 
off public roads; 
(b) is not owned by an "insured"; and 
(c) at  the  time  of  the  "occurrence",  is 
not  required by law, or regulation 
issued by a government agency, 
to have been registered for it to 
be used on    public roads or 
property. 
CONDITIONS 
A. Limit Of Liability. 
1. Our total liability under Coverage L for all 
damages resulting from any one 
"occurrence" will not be more than the limit 
of liability for Coverage L as shown in the 
Declarations.  
All "bodily  injury"  and  "property damage" 
resulting from  any one accident or from 
continuous or repeated exposure to 
substantially the same   general harmful 
conditions shall be considered  to be the 
result of one "occurrence". 
2. Sub-Limit Of Liability. 
Subject  to  Paragraph 1. above,  our  total 
liability under Coverage L for damages for 
which an  "insured" is legally liable because 
of statutorily   imposed vicarious parental 
liability not otherwise excluded is $10,000. 
This Sub-Limit is   within, but does not 
increase the Coverage L Limit of Liability. 

Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc., with its permission 
SOI 2016 DL Page 8 of 9 
 
Southern Oak Insurance Company 
DWELLING 
 
 
3. The Limit of Liability in 1. above and Sub-Limit 
in 2. above apply regardless of the number of 
"insureds", claims made or persons injured. 
4. Our total liability under Coverage M for all 
medical expense payable for "bodily injury" to 
one person as the result of one accident will 
not be more than the Limit of Liability for 
Coverage M as shown in the Declarations. 
B. Severability Of   Insurance.    This insurance 
applies separately to each "insured". This 
condition will not increase our limit of  liability for 
any one "occurrence". 
C. Duties After "Occurrence".   In case of an 
"occurrence", you or another "insured" will 
perform the following duties that apply.  You will 
help us by seeing that these duties are 
performed: 
1. give written notice to us or our agent as 
soon as is practical, which sets forth: 
a. the identity of the policy and the "named 
insured" shown in the Declarations; 
b. reasonably available information on the 
time, place and circumstances of the 
"occurrence"; and 
c. names and addresses of any claimants 
and witnesses; 
2. cooperate with us in the investigation, 
settlement or defense of any claim or suit; 
3. promptly forward to us every notice, 
demand,  summons or other process relating 
to the "occurrence"; 
4. at our request, help us: 
a. to make settlement; 
b. to enforce any right of contribution or 
indemnity against any person or 
organization   who may be liable to an 
"insured"; 
c. with the conduct of suits and attend 
hearings and trials; and 
d. to secure and give evidence and obtain the 
attendance of witnesses; 
5. with respect to C. Damage To Property Of 
Others under Additional Coverages, submit 
to  us within 60 days after the loss, a sworn 
statement of loss and show the damaged 
property, if in an "insured's" control; 
6. no "insured" shall, except at such 
"insured's"    own cost, voluntarily make 
payment, assume     obligation or incur 
expense other than for first aid  to  others  at 
the time of the "bodily injury". 
D. Duties Of An Injured Person – Coverage M 
– Medical Payments To Others. 
1. The injured person or someone acting for 
the injured person will: 
a. give us written proof of claim, under oath 
if required, as soon as is practical; and 
b. authorize  us  to  obtain  copies  of  
medical reports and records. 
2. The injured person will submit to a 
physical  exam by a doctor of our choice 
when and as   often as we reasonably 
require. 
E. Payment Of Claim – Coverage M Medical 
Payments To Others. Payment under this 
coverage is not an admission of liability by 
an "insured" or us. 
F. Suit Against Us. 
1. No action can be brought against us 
unless  there has been full compliance with 
all of the terms under this policy. 
2. No one will have the right to join us as a 
party to any action against an "insured". 
3. No action with respect to Coverage L can be 
brought against us until the obligation of 
such "insured" has been determined by 
final judgment or agreement signed by us. 
G. Bankruptcy Of An "Insured". Bankruptcy or 
insolvency of an "insured" will not relieve us of 
our obligations under this policy. 
H. Other Insurance. This insurance is excess 
over other valid and collectible insurance 
except insurance written specifically to cover 
as excess over the limits of liability that  apply 
in this policy. 
I. Policy Period. This policy applies only to 
"bodily injury" or "property damage" which 
occurs during the policy period. 
J. Subrogation. An "insured" may waive in writing 
before a loss all rights of recovery against any 
person. If not   waived, we may require an 
assignment of rights of recovery for a loss to 
the extent that payment is made by us. 
However, we waive any rights of recovery 
against    the corporation or association of 
property owners  of the condominium where 
the "residence premises" is located. 
If an assignment is sought, an "insured" must 
sign    and deliver all related papers and 
cooperate with us. 
Subrogation does not apply to Coverage M or 
Paragraph C. Damage To Property Of Others 
under Additional Coverages. 
K. Concealment  Or  Fraud. We do not provide 
coverage to an "insured" who,  whether before 
or after a loss, has: 
1. intentionally concealed or misrepresented 

Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc., with its permission 
SOI 2016 DL Page 9 of 9 
 
Southern Oak Insurance Company 
DWELLING 
 
 
any material fact or circumstance; 
2. engaged in fraudulent conduct; or 
3. made material false statements;  
relating to this insurance. 
 
However, if this Policy has been in effect for 
more than 90 days, we may not deny a claim 
filed by you or an “insured” on the basis of credit 
information available in public records. 
 
In WITNESS WHEREOF, Southern Oak Insurance 
Company has executed and attested these 
presents. 
 
 
Chief Executive Officer 
Southern Oak Insurance Company 



Southern Oak Insurance Company  DWELLING FIRE 
SOI 04 67 04 24 Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office Inc., Page 1 of 8 
 with its permission 
 
 
FLORIDA POLICY PROVISIONS 
 
DEFINITIONS 
The following definition is added: 
"Catastrophic ground cover collapse" means the geo-
logical activity that results in all of the following: 
a.  The abrupt collapse of the ground cover; 
b.  A depression in the ground cover clearly visible to 
the naked eye; 
c.  Structural  damage  to  the  building,  including  the 
foundation; and 
d.  The   insured   structure   being   condemned   and 
ordered to be vacated by the governmental agen-
cy  authorized  by  law  to  issue  such  an  order  for 
that structure.  
“Marring” means to: 
a.  Disfigure; 
b.  Deface; 
c.  Scar; or 
d.  Blemish 
COVERAGES 
Under B.  Coverage  B – Other  Structures,  1. is  de-
leted and replaced with the following: 
We cover: 
1.  Other  structures  on  the Described  Location set 
apart from the dwelling by a clear space.  
2.  Other  structures  connected to  the  dwelling  by  only 
a fence, utility line, or similar connection.  
3.  Fences  whether  attached  or  not  attached  to  the 
dwelling. 
Under E. Other  Coverages,  2. Reasonable  Repairs 
is deleted and replaced by the following: 
2.  Reasonable Emergency Measures 
 
 a.   We will pay up to the greater of $3,000 or 
1% of your Coverage A limit of liability for 
the reasonable costs incurred by you for 
necessary measures taken solely to pro-
tect covered property from further damage, 
when the damage or loss is caused by a 
Peril Insured Against. 
b.  We will not pay more than the amount in a. 
above,  unless  we  provide  you  approval 
within 48 hours of your request to us to ex-
ceed the limit in a. above.  In such circum-
stance, we will pay only up to the addition-
al amount for the measures we authorize. 
 If we fail to respond to you within 48 hours 
of  your  request  to  us  and  the  damage  or 
loss  is  caused  by  a  Peril  Insured  Against, 
you  may  exceed  the  amount  in a. above 
only  up  to the  cost  incurred  by  you  for  the 
reasonable  emergency  measures  neces-
sary  to  protect  the  covered property  from 
further damage. 
c. If  however,  form SOI 04 59 is  part  of  your 
Policy  and  a  covered  loss  occurs  during  a 
hurricane  as  described  in  form SOI 04  59, 
the  amount  we  pay  under this other cover-
age is not limited to the amount is a. above. 
d. A  reasonable  measure  under  this Other 
Coverage 2. may  include  a  permanent  re-
pair when necessary to protect the covered 
property from further damage or to prevent 
unwanted entry to the property.  To the de-
gree   reasonably   possible,   the   damaged 
property must be retained for us to inspect. 
e. This coverage does not: 
 (1) Increase the limit of liability that applies 
to the covered property; 
 (2) Relieve you of your duties, in case of a 
loss  to  covered  property, as  set  forth  in 
Conditions D.; 
 (3)  Pay  for  property  not covered,  or  for  re-
pairs  resulting  from  a  peril  not  covered,  or 
for loss excluded in this Policy. 
 
The following is added: 
F. Special Limit of Liability 
 
Matching  of  Undamaged  Property. We  will  only 
initially  pay  the  actual  cash  value  of  damage to cov-
ered property that is directly and physically damaged 
by  the  reported  loss,  less  any  applicable  deductible. 
We  will  pay  any  remaining amounts  necessary  to 
perform  such  repairs  as  work  is  performed  and  ex-
penses  are  incurred.  If,  after work  is  performed  and 
expenses are incurred, it is determined that the cov-
ered  property  that  was  directly and  physically  dam-
aged  by  the  reported  loss  cannot  be repaired  or  re-
placed  to  match  the  adjoining undamaged  property, 
then  we  will  repair  or  replace  adjoining  undamaged 
property.  In  determining  the extent  of  the  repairs  or 
replacement  of  adjoining  undamaged  property,  we 
will  consider,  subject  to  the limit  provided  in  this  en-
dorsement: 

SOI 04 67 04 24 Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office Inc., Page 2 of 8 
 with its permission 
 
a.   The  cost  of  repairing  or  replacing  the  undam-
aged portions of the property; and 
b.    The    degree    of    uniformity    that   can    be 
achieved without such cost; and 
c.    The  remaining  useful  life  of  the undamaged 
portion; and 
d.    Other relevant factors. 
 
The total limit of liability for Coverages A and B is 1% 
of  the Coverage  A limit  of  liability  for  repairs  or  re-
placements  of  any  undamaged  part  of the  building  or 
its components solely to match repairs made to dam-
age as a result of a covered loss. 
 
This  limitation  does  not increase  the Coverage  A or 
Coverage  B limits  of  liability  shown  on  the  Declara-
tions  page,  nor  does  it  apply  to  damage  otherwise 
limited or excluded. 
 
PERILS INSURED AGAINST 
A.  Coverage A – Dwelling And Coverage B – Oth-
er Structures 
 
1.   We  insure  against risk  of  direct  physical  loss  to 
property described in Coverages A and B. is deleted 
and replaced by the following: 
 
1.   We  insure  against  risk  of  direct  physical  loss,  in-
cluding  the  peril  of  “Catastrophic  ground  cover  col-
lapse” as defined in the Definitions section to property 
described in Coverages A and B. 
 
2.c.(7) is deleted and replaced by the following: 
(7) Accidental   discharge   or   overflow   of   water   or 
steam,  unless  loss  to  property  covered  under  Cover-
age  A  or  B  results  from  an  accidental  discharge  or 
overflow  of  water  or  steam  from  within  a  plumbing, 
heating, air  conditioning  or  automatic  fire  protective 
sprinkler  system  or  household  appliance  on  the  De-
scribed Location. 
Loss to property covered under Coverage A or B that 
results  from  an  accidental  discharge  or  overflow  of 
water  or  steam  from  within  a  plumbing,  heating,  air 
conditioning   or   automatic   fire   protective   sprinkler 
system  or  household  appliance  on  the  Described 
Location  includes  the  cost  to  tear  out  and  repair  only 
that  part  or  portion  of  a  building  or  other  structure 
covered  under  Coverage A or B,  on  the  Described 
Location,  necessary  to  access  the  system  or  appli-
ance.  
(a)  The  cost  that  we  will  pay  for  the  tear  out  and 
repair  of the  part  or  portion  of  the  building  or 
other structure coverage under Coverage A or 
B as specified above is limited to only that part 
or  portion  of  the  covered  building  or  other 
structure which is necessary to provide access 
to  the  part  or  portion  of  the system  or  appli-
ance  that  caused  the  covered  loss,  whether 
the system or appliance, or any part or portion 
of the system or appliance, is repairable or not. 
(b)  In no event will we pay for the repair or the re-
placement  of  the  system  or  appliance  that 
caused the covered loss. 
We do not cover loss: 
(a)  To the system or appliance from which this wa-
ter or steam escaped; 
(b)  On  the Described  Location  caused  by  acci-
dental  discharge  or  overflow  which  occurs  off 
the Described Location; 
(c)  To  a  plumbing  system,  whether  above  or  be-
low the ground, caused by: 
i.  Age, collapse, obsolescence, wear, tear; 
ii.  Fading, oxidization, weathering; 
iii.  Deterioration, decay, marring, delamination, 
crumbling, settling, cracking; 
iv.  Shifting,  bulging,  racking,  sagging,  bowing, 
bending, leaning, 
v.  Shrinkage,  expansion,  contraction,  bellying 
corrosion; 
vi.  The  unavailability  or  discontinuation  of  a 
part or component of the system; or 
vii.  Any  other  age  or  maintenance  related  is-
sue; 
(d)  To  a  plumbing  system,  whether  above  or  be-
low  the  ground,  caused  by  the impairment, 
state or condition of the system, which prohib-
its   repair or   replacement   including   access, 
necessary  to  connect  the  adjoining  parts  of 
appliances, pipes or system; or 
(e)  Otherwise excluded or limited elsewhere in the 
Policy. 
For  purposes  of  this provision,  a  plumbing  system 
or household appliance does not include: 
(a)  A  sump,  sump  pump,  irrigation  system,  or  re-
lated equipment; or 
(b)  A  roof  drain,  gutter,  down  spout,  or  similar  fix-
tures or equipment. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

SOI 04 67 04 24 Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office Inc., Page 3 of 8 
 with its permission 
 
2.c.(8)(g) is deleted and replaced by the following: 
(g) Birds,   vermin,   rodents, marsupials, animals,  
reptiles,  fish, insects,  or  pests,  including  but  not 
limited  to,  termites,  snails,  raccoons,  opossums, 
armadillos,   flies,   bed   bugs,   lice,   ticks,   locust, 
cockroaches, and fleas; or  
The following is added to 2.c.(8): 
(h) Nesting  or  infestation  or  discharge  or  release  of 
waste products or secretions by any animals. 
(i)  Bodily  fluid  and  matter  substances  including  but 
not   limited   to   blood,   tissue,   organic   material, 
decomposition,  generated  waste  and biomedical 
waste, saliva, mucus, urine and feces. 
 
Exception  to  c.(8) is  deleted  and  replaced  by  the 
following 
If  any  of  these  cause  water  damage  not  otherwise 
excluded  or  limited  elsewhere  in  the  Policy,  from  a 
plumbing,  heating,  air  conditioning  or  automatic fire 
protective  sprinkler  system  or  household  appliance, 
we cover loss caused by the water, including the cost 
to  tear  out  and  repair  only  that  part  or  portion  of  a 
building or other structure covered under Coverage A 
or B, on the Described Location, necessary to access 
the system or appliance. 
(a)  The  cost  that  we  will  pay  for  the  tear  out  and 
repair of the part or portion of the building or other 
structure  coverage  under  Coverage A or B as 
specified  above  is  limited to  only  that  part  or  por-
tion  of  the covered  building  or  other  structure 
which  is  necessary  to  provide  access  to  the  part 
or portion of the system or appliance that caused 
the  covered  loss,  whether  the  system  or  appli-
ance,  or  any  part  or  portion  of  the  system  or  ap-
pliance, is repairable or not. 
(b)  In  no  event  will  we  pay  for  the  repair  or  the  re-
placement of the system or appliance that caused 
the covered loss. 
We do not cover loss to the system or appliance from 
which this water escaped. 
For  purposes  of  this  provision,  a  plumbing  system  or 
household appliance does not include: 
(a)  A sump, sump pump, irrigation system, or related 
equipment; or 
(b)  A roof drain, gutter, down spout, or similar fixtures 
or equipment. 
Under 2.b. and 2.c. above, any ensuing loss to prop-
erty described in Coverages A and B not precluded by 
any other provision in this policy is covered. 
The following is added to 2.c.: 
(9)  Falling objects unless the roof or an outside 
wall of the building is first damaged by a falling 
object. Damage to the falling object itself is not 
covered. 
(10) Rain, snow, sleet, sand or dust to the interior of 
a building unless a covered peril first damages 
the building causing an opening in a roof or wall 
and the rain, snow, sleet, sand or dust enters 
through this opening. 
 
 
B. Coverage C – Personal Property 
17. Sinkhole Collapse is deleted and replaced by the 
following: 
17.  Catastrophic Ground Cover Collapse 
a.  We insure for direct physical loss to proper-
ty described  under COVERAGES caused 
by  the  peril  of  “catastrophic  ground  cover 
collapse”. 
b.  Coverage C applies if there is a direct phys-
ical  loss  resulting  from  a  “catastrophic 
ground  cover  collapse”,  unless  the  loss  is 
excluded elsewhere in this policy. 
This peril does not increase the limit of liability 
that applies to the damaged property. 
 
 
GENERAL EXCLUSIONS  
Under A., Paragraph 2. Earth  Movement is  deleted 
and replaced by the following: 
2.  Earth Movement and Settlement, meaning: 
a.  Earthquake,  including  land  shock  waves  or 
tremors  before,  during  or  after  a  volcanic 
eruption; 
b.  Landslide; 
c.  Mine subsidence; 
d.  Mudflow; 
e.  Earth sinking, rising or shifting; 
f.  Clay  shrinkage  or  other  expansion  or  con-
traction of soils or organic materials; 
g.  Decay of buried or organic materials; or 
h.  Settling,  cracking  or  expansion  of  founda-
tion; 
Whether caused by natural or man-made activ-
ities; unless direct loss by: 
a.  Fire; or 
b.  Explosion; 
Ensues and then we will pay only for the ensu-
ing loss. 
This exclusion does not apply in the event of a 
direct  physical  loss  from theft  or “catastrophic 
ground cover collapse”. 

Southern Oak Insurance Company  DWELLING FIRE 
SOI 04 67 04 24 Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office Inc., Page 4 of 8 
 with its permission 
 
Under A., 3. Water  Damage is  deleted  and  replaced 
by the following: 
3. Water Damage 
Water Damage means:  
 a. Flood,  surface  water,  waves,  tidal  water, 
overflow  of  a  body  of  water,  or  spray  from 
any of these, whether or not driven by wind; 
or 
 b. Water  or  water-borne  material  below  the 
surface of the ground, including water which 
exerts   pressure   on   or   seeps   or   leaks 
through   a   building,   sidewalk,   driveway, 
foundation,  swimming  pool  or  other  struc-
ture. 
Direct loss by fire, explosion or theft resulting from 
water damage is covered. 
 
Under A.,  11. Existing  Damage is  deleted  and  re-
placed by the following: 
11. Existing Damage 
Damages  which  occurred  prior  to  pol-
icy  inception  regardless  of   whether  
such  damages  were apparent at the 
time of the inception of this policy or dis-
covered  at a later date; or 
This exclusion does not apply in the event of 
a total loss caused by a Peril Insured Against. 
 
Under A., the following Exclusions have been added: 
13. Loss Caused By Sinkhole. 
a.  “Sinkhole” means  a  landform  created  by 
subsidence  of  soils,  sediment,  or  rock  as 
underlying  strata  are  dissolved  by  ground 
water.  A “sinkhole” forms by  collapse  into 
subterranean  voids  created  by the dissolu-
tion of limestone or dolostone or by subsid-
ence as these strata are dissolved. 
This  exclusion  does  not  apply  in  the  event 
of a direct physical loss from “catastrophic 
ground cover collapse”.  
 
14. Constant  or repeated  seepage  or leakage  
of water or steam, or the presence  or con-
densation  of humidity, moisture or vapor; 
which occurs over a period of weeks, months 
or  years, whether hidden or not  and  results 
in  damage  such  as  wet  or  dry  rot, “fungi,” 
deterioration, rust, decay or other corrosion. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15. Assignee(s) or Third Parties. 
 We  will  not  be  responsible  for  payment  under 
the  policy  for  any  assignee(s)  or  third  parties 
when the loss is not covered under this policy. 
16. Criminal Acts. 
Criminal or Illegal Activity, meaning any and all 
criminal or  illegal  acts performed by any “in-
sured” that result in damage to  your  structure 
or personal property.  
17. Professional Services Exclusion. 
This policy does not provide coverage for and 
expressly excludes any payment for expenses 
of engineering      reports, professional ser-
vices, or other expert opinions, reports, or es-
timates to establish and/or determine the 
cause of loss or the amount of loss rendered 
by professionals including, but not  limited to 
appraisers, inspectors, contractors, plumbers, 
consultants, estimators, roofers, or engineers 
paid for or ordered by you or any “insured” or 
any representative acting on your or any in-
sured’s behalf, unless we first request or ap-
prove the report, service, or opinion.  
 
CONDITIONS 
C. Concealment Or Fraud is deleted and replaced 
with the following: 
 
C. Concealment Or Fraud 
We provide coverage to no “insured” under the 
policy if, whether before or after a loss, an “in-
sured” has: 
1. Intentionally   concealed   or   misrepresented 
any  material fact or circumstance; 
2. Engaged in fraudulent conduct; or 
3. Made material false statements; 
 relating to this insurance. 
However,  if  this  Policy  has  been  in  effect  for 
more  than  90  days,  we  may  not  deny  a  claim 
filed  by  you  or  an  “insured”  on  the  basis  of 
credit information available in public records. 
 

SOI 04 67 04 24 Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office Inc., Page 5 of 8 
 with its permission 
 
D.Duties After Loss is deleted and replaced with 
the following: 
D. Duties After Loss 
In  case  of  a  loss  to  covered  property, you  must 
see  that  the  following  are  done.    These  duties 
must  be  performed  either  by  you,  an ”insured” 
seeking coverage, or a representative of either:  
1.   Give prompt notice to us or your insurance agent. 
Except   for   Reasonable   Emergency   Measures 
taken  under  Other  Coverage E.  2., there  is  no 
coverage  for  repairs  that  begin  before  the  earlier 
of: 
(a)   72 hours after we are notified of the loss; 
(b)   The time of loss inspection by us; or 
(c) The time of other approval by us; 
2.    (a)  To  the  degree  reasonably  possible,  retain  the 
damaged property; and 
 (b)   Allow us to inspect, subject to 2.(a) above, all 
damaged property prior to its removal from the 
Described Location. 
3. Protect  the  covered  property  from  further  dam-
age.  The following must be performed: 
(a) Take  reasonable  emergency  measures  that 
are necessary to protect the covered property 
from  further  damage,  as  provided  in  Other 
Coverage E.2.; 
  
A  reasonable emergency  measure  under 
3.(a) above  may  include  a  permanent  re-
pair when necessary to protect the covered 
property from further damage or to prevent 
unwanted entry to the property.  To the de-
gree   reasonably   possible,   the   damaged 
property must be retained for us to inspect. 
 (b)  Keep an accurate record of repair expenses: 
4.   Cooperate with us in the investigation of a claim; 
5.  Prepare an inventory of damaged personal prop-
erty showing  the   quantity,   description,   actual 
cash  value  and  amount  of  loss.    Attach all  bills, 
receipts  and  related  documents  that  justify  the 
figures in the inventory. 
6.   As often as we reasonably require:  
(a)   Show us the damaged property to the ex-
tent reasonably possible; 
(b)   Provide us with the records and documents 
we request and permit us to make copies; 
(c)     Any and all “insureds” must submit to rec-
orded statements when requested by us; 
(d)   In the County where the “insured  location”  
is located you, your agents, your repre-
sentatives  and any and all “insureds” must 
submit to examinations under oath and sign 
same when requested by us; 
 
 
 
 
At our request, the examinations  will be 
conducted separately and not in the pres-
ence of any other persons except legal 
representation; 
(e)   Permit us to take samples of damaged and 
undamaged property for inspection, testing 
and analysis to  the  extent  reasonably  pos-
sible; 
(f)   Any and all “insureds” must execute all au-
thorizations for the release of information 
when requested by us; and 
7.  Send  to  us,  within  60  days  after  our  request, 
your  signed,  sworn  proof  of  loss  which  sets 
forth to the best of your knowledge and belief; 
(a)  The time and cause of loss; 
(b) Your  interest  and  that  of  all  others  in  the 
property  involved  and  all  liens  on  the 
property; 
(c) Other  insurance  which  may cover  the 
loss; 
(d) Changes   in  title   or   occupancy  of  the 
property during the term of the policy; 
(e) Specifications  of  damaged  buildings  and 
detailed repair estimates; 
(f)  The  inventory  of  damage  personal  prop-
erty described in D.5.; 
(g) Receipts  for  additional  living  expenses 
incurred and records that  support the fair 
rental value loss. 
8. As often as is reasonably necessary to effectuate 
repairs: 
 
(1)   Provide access to the property; 
(2)  Execute any necessary city, county or mu-
nicipal permits for repairs to be undertak-
en; 
(3)   Execute work authorizations to allow con-
tractors entry to the property; and 
(4)  Otherwise cooperate with the repairs to the 
property; 
9.   A claim or reopened claim is barred unless notice 
of the claim is given to us in accordance with the 
terms of the Policy within 1 year after the  date of 
loss.  A  reopened  claim  means  a  claim  that  we 
have  previously  closed,  but  that  has  been  reo-
pened  upon  an  insured’s  request  for  additional 
costs  for  loss  or  damage  previously  disclosed  to 
us.  
 
A supplemental  claim  is  barred  unless  notice  of 
the  supplemental  claim  is  given  to  us  in  accord-
ance   with   the   terms   of   the   Policy   within 18 
months after  the  date  of  loss.  A  supplemental 
claim  means  a  claim  for  additional  loss  or  dam-
age from the same peril which we have previously 
adjusted  or  for  which  costs  have  been  incurred 
while completing repairs or replacement pursuant 

SOI 04 67 04 24 Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office Inc., Page 6 of 8 
 with its permission 
 
to an open claim for which timely notice was pre-
viously provided to us.  
 
For  claims  resulting  from  hurricanes,  tornadoes, 
windstorms, severe rain, or other weather-related 
events, the date of loss  is the date that the hurri-
cane made landfall or the tornado, windstorm, se-
vere  rain,  or  other  weather-related  event  is  veri-
fied  by  the  National  Oceanic  and  Atmospheric 
Administration. 
The duties above apply regardless of whether you, an 
“insured”  seeking  coverage,  or  a  representative  of 
either  retains  or  is  assisted  by  a  party  who  provides 
legal advice, insurance advice or expert claim advice, 
regarding an insurance claim under this Policy. 
Under E. Loss Settlement, paragraph 2.d. and 2.e. 
are deleted and replaced with the following: 
d.  We will initially pay at least the actual cash value 
of the insured loss, less any applicable deductible.  
We  will  then  pay  any  remaining  amounts  neces-
sary to perform such repairs as work is performed 
and  expenses  are  incurred,  subject  to 2.a. and 
2.b. above.  
If a total loss of the dwelling occurs, the provisions 
of 2.d above  does not  apply  and we  will  pay  the 
replacement  cost amount  without  deduction  for 
depreciation.  
Under E. Loss  Settlement, Paragraph 3. has  been 
deleted and replaced with the following: 
3.    If  the  dwelling  where  loss  or  damage  occurs  has        
been vacant for more than sixty (60) consecutive days 
before the loss or damage, we will: 
Not pay for any loss or damage caused by 
any of the following perils, even if they are 
Perils Insured Against: 
1)   Vandalism and malicious mischief, and 
any  ensuring  loss  caused  by  any  in-
tentional  and  wrongful  act  committed 
in the course of the vandalism or mali-
cious mischief; 
2)   Dwelling glass breakage; or 
3)   Water damage. 
Dwellings  under  construction  are  not  con-
sidered vacant. 
 
G.  Mediation  Or Appraisal has  been  changed  to G. 
Mediation. 
Paragraph 2. is deleted. 
 
K. Our Option is deleted and replaced by the follow-
ing: 
K. Our Option 
At our option, in lieu of issuing any loss payment, 
if we choose to exercise our option: 
 
a.  For losses  settled  on an actual  cash  value  
basis,  we may  repair  or replace  any part 
of the damaged property with material or 
property of like kind and quality; 
b.  For  losses  covered  under  Coverage  A – 
Dwelling,  insured  for  Replacement  Cost  
Loss  Settlement  as outlined in SECTION I 
– CONDITIONS, Loss Settlement, we may 
repair the damaged property with material of 
like kind and quality without deduction for 
depreciation. 
c.   If  we  choose  to  exercise  our  option,  we will 
provide written notice to you no later than 
thirty (30) days after our inspection of the 
reported loss. 
 We may invoke our option to repair within the 
stated time frame after either a supplemental 
claim or reopened claim regardless of wheth-
er  we  invoked  our option during  the  adjust-
ment  of  the  initial  claim  or  a  prior  supple-
mental claim. 
 
d.  You must comply with the duties described in 
SECTION I – CONDITIONS, paragraphs 
D.6. and D.8. 
e.  You  must  provide  access  to  the  proper-
ty  and  execute  any  necessary  munici-
pal,  county  or  other governmental docu-
mentation or permits for repairs to be 
undertaken. 
f.    You must execute all work authorizations to 
allow contractors and related parties entry to 
the property. 
g.  You must otherwise cooperate with repairs to 
the property. 
h.   You are responsible for payment of the de-
ductible stated in your declaration page. 
i.   Our right to repair or replace, and our deci-
sion to do so, is a material part of this con-
tract and under no circumstances relieves 
you or us of our mutual duties and obliga-
tions under this contract. 
 
Under L.  Loss Payment, the following item is added: 
3.  Within 60 days  after  we  receive  the  notice  of  an 
initial,  reopened,  or  supplemental property  insurance 
claim  from  you, where  for  each  initial,  reopened,  or 
supplemental claim, we shall pay or deny such a claim 
or  portion  of  such  claim,  unless  there  are  circum-
stances beyond our control which reasonably prevent 
such payment. 
Our  failure  to  comply  with  this  paragraph  shall  not 
form the sole basis for an action against us for breach 
of  contract  under this  policy  or for  benefits  under  this 
policy. 
 
 
 

SOI 04 67 04 24 Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office Inc., Page 7 of 8 
 with its permission 
 
N. Mortgage Clause – the following item is added: 
6. We provide coverage to no mortgagee or its 
representatives under this policy if, whether be-
fore or after a loss, a mortgagee or its repre-
sentative has: 
 
a.   Intentionally concealed or misrepresented 
any material fact or circumstance; 
b.    Engaged in fraudulent conduct; or  
c.    Made material false statements;  
relating to this insurance 
P. Cancellation 
 
Paragraph 3. is deleted and replaced by the following: 
 3. We  may  also  cancel  this  policy  subject  to  the 
following  provisions.  A  written  cancellation  no-
tice, together with the specific reasons for can-
cellation,  will  be  delivered  to  you,  or  mailed  to 
you at your mailing address shown in the Dec-
larations.  
Proof  of  mailing  will  be  sufficient  proof  of  no-
tice.  
 a. When  you  have  not  paid  the  premium,  we 
may cancel at any time by letting you know 
at least 10 days before the date cancellation 
takes effect.  If the lender, as a result of ne-
glect fails to pay your premium we will rein-
state your policy if payment is received with-
in  90  days  of  the  due  date  in  compliance 
with F. S. Section 627.4133 (5). 
 b. When  this  policy  has  been  in  effect  for 60 
days or less, we may cancel for any reason, 
except we may not cancel:  
(1) On   the   basis   of   property   insurance 
claims  that  are  the  result  of  an  Act  of 
God,  unless  we  can  demonstrate, by 
claims frequency or  otherwise,  that  the 
"insured"  has  failed  to  take  action  rea-
sonably  necessary  as  requested  by  us 
to  prevent  recurrence  of  damage  to  the 
insured property; or 
 (2)On  the  basis  of  filing  a  single  claim 
which  is  the  result  of  water  damage 
used as the sole reason for cancellation 
unless   we   can   demonstrate the  “in-
sured” has failed  to  take  action  reason-
ably  requested  by  us  to  prevent  future 
similar  occurrences  to  the  insured  prop-
erty. 
(3) Solely  on  the  basis  of  the  age  of  the 
structure.   
(4) On  the  basis of  the  lawful  use,  posses-
sion or ownership of a firearm or ammu-
nition by an “insured” or members of the 
“insured’s” household. 
Except  as  provided  in  Paragraph P.2 and 
P.3.a, above, we will let you know of our ac-
tion at least 20 days before the date cancel-
lation takes effect.  
 c. When this policy has been in effect for more 
than 60 days, we may cancel:  
(1) If  there  has  been  a  material  misstate-
ment;  
(2) If   the   risk   has   changed   substantially 
since the policy was issued;  
(3) In  the event  of  failure  to  comply, within 
60 days  after  the  effectuation  of  cover-
age,  with underwriting  requirements  es-
tablished by us before the date of effec-
tuation of coverage;  
(4) If  the  cancellation  is  for  all  insureds  un-
der policies of this type for a given class 
of insureds;  
(5) On   the   basis   of   property   insurance 
claims  that  are  the  result  of  an  Act  of 
God,  if  we  can  demonstrate,  by  claims 
frequency   or   otherwise,   that   the   "in-
sured"  has  failed  to  take  action  reason-
ably  necessary  as  requested  by  us  to 
prevent  recurrence  of  damage to the  in-
sured property; or  
(6) On  the  basis  of  filing  a  single  claim 
which  is  the  result  of  water  damage 
used as the sole reason for cancellation 
if we can demonstrate the “insured” has 
failed   to   take   action   reasonably   re-
quested by  us  to  prevent  future  similar 
occurrences to the insured property. 
Except as provided in Paragraph P.3.a, we will 
let you  know of  our  actions at  least  120  days 
prior to the effective date of the cancellation. 
d. When  this  policy  has  been  in  effect  for  more 
than 60 days, we may not cancel: 
(1) On  the  basis  of the  lawful  use,  possession 
or ownership of a firearm or ammunition by 
an “insured” or members of the “insured’s” 
household; or 
(2)  On the basis of credit information available 
in public records. 
Under P.  Cancellation,  paragraph 5. Is  deleted  and 
replaced by the following: 
5.  If the premium is not refunded with the notice of 
cancellation  or  when  the  policy  is  returned  to  us, 
we  will  refund  it  within  15  days  after  the  cancella-
tion is effective. 

SOI 04 67 04 24 Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office Inc., Page 8 of 8 
 with its permission 
 
Q. Nonrenewal is   deleted   and   replaced   by   the 
following: 
Q. Nonrenewal 
We  may  elect  not  to  renew  this  policy.  However, 
we will not nonrenew this policy:  
1. On  the  basis  of  property  insurance  claims  that 
are  the  result  of  an  Act  of God,  unless  we  can 
demonstrate, by claims frequency or otherwise, 
that  the  "insured"  has failed  to  take  action  rea-
sonably  necessary  as  requested  by  us  to  pre-
vent recurrence of damage to the insured prop-
erty; or  
2.  On  the  basis  of  filing  a  single  claim  which  is   
the  result  of  water damage  used  as  the  sole 
reason  for  nonrenewal  unless  we  can  demon-
strate the  “insured”  has failed  to  take  action 
reasonably  requested  by  us  to  prevent  future 
similar occurrences to the insured property. 
3.  On  the  basis  of  filing  of  claim(s) for “sinkhole 
loss”, unless  
a.  The  total of  such  property  claim  payments 
for this  policy equals  or exceeds the  policy 
limits  of  coverage  for  property  damage to 
the covered building in effect on the date of 
loss; or 
b. You  have  failed  to  repair  the  structure  in 
accordance   with   the   engineering   recom-
mendations  upon  which  any  loss  payment 
or policy proceeds were based. 
4.  Solely on the basis of the age of the structure. 
5.  On  the  basis  of  the  lawful  use,  possession  or 
ownership  of  a  firearm  or  ammunition  by  an 
“insured” or    members of  the  “insured’s” 
household, or 
6.  On  the  basis  of  credit  information  available  in 
public records. 
We may do so by delivering to you or mailing to you at 
your  mailing  address  shown  in  the  Declarations,  writ-
ten notice, together with the specific reasons for non-
renewal, at least 120 days prior to the effective date of 
the  nonrenewal. Proof  of  mailing  will  be  sufficient 
proof of notice. 
 
The following is added: 
AA.  Inspections And Surveys 
1.  We have the right to: 
a.  Make inspections and surveys at any time; 
b.  Give you reports on the conditions we find; 
and 
c.  Recommend changes. 
2.  We  are  not  obligated  to  make  any  inspec-
tions,  surveys,  reports  or  recommendations 
and  any  such  actions  we  do  undertake  relate 
only  to  insurability  and  the  premiums  to  be 
charged. 
3.  This condition applies not only to us, but also 
to  any  rating,  advisory,  inspections  service  or 
similar  organization  which  makes  insurance 
inspections, surveys, reports or recommenda-
tions. 
 
BB.   Choice Of Laws 
This  policy  and  any  performance  thereunder 
shall  be  constructed  with  and  governed  by  the 
laws of the State of Florida. 
 
CC.  Salvage 
 1. In the event we pay you and or your loss payee 
for a total loss under this policy, we will be enti-
tled to any and all salvage rights associated with 
this loss.  You  agree  that  you  will take  all  rea-
sonable  steps  necessary  to  help  us  fulfill  our 
salvage rights.  
 2. We may permit you to keep damaged insured 
property after a loss. If we permit you to keep 
damaged insured property, we will reduce the 
amount  of  loss  proceeds payable  to  you  un-
der the policy by the value of the salvage. 
 
DD. Notification Regarding Access 
A  company  employee  adjuster,  independent  ad-
juster,  attorney,  investigator,  or  other  persons 
acting  on  behalf  of  us  that  needs  access  to  an 
insured or the claimant or to the insured property 
that  is  the  subject  of  a  claim  must  provide  at 
least 48 hours’ notice to the insured or the claim-
ant,  public  adjuster,  or  legal  representative  be-
fore scheduling a meeting with the claimant or an 
onsite inspection of the insured property. 
 
The insured or the claimant may deny access to 
the property if notice has not been provided. The 
insured  or  the  claimant  may  waive  the  48-hour 
notice. 
 
EE. Recordings 
Recording  of  any  inspection  by  audio,  video,  or 
any other means by the insured, claimant, or any 
third  party  representing the  insured  or claimant  is 
strictly prohibited. 
 
 
All other provisions of this policy apply. 
 

Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, with its permission 
Page 1 of 2
Ed. 05/2005
*Entries may be left blank if shown elsewhere in this policy for this coverage.
Flat Dollar:$
%
Calendar Year Hurricane Deductible Amount:
Percentage:
POLICY NUMBER:DWELLING FIRE
SOI 04 59
THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY.  PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.
CALENDAR YEAR HURRICANE DEDUCTIBLE WITH 
SUPPLEMENTAL REPORTING REQUIREMENT – FLORIDA
SCHEDULE*
A.  Loss By Windstorm During A Hurricane
As  respects  Paragraph  C.  Hurricane  Deductible, 
coverage for loss caused by the peril of windstorm 
during  a  hurricane  which  occurs  anywhere  in  the 
state  of  Florida,  includes  loss  to  the  inside  of  a 
building  or  the  property  contained  in  a  building 
caused  by  rain,  snow,  sleet,  hail,  sand  or  dust  if 
the  direct  force  of  the  windstorm  damages  the 
building,  causing  an  opening  in  a  roof  or  wall  and 
the  rain,  snow,  sleet,  hail,  sand  or  dust  enters 
through this opening.
B.  Hurricane Described
1.  A  hurricane  means  a  storm  system  that  has 
been  declared  to  be  a  hurricane  by  the  Na- 
tional    Hurricane    Center    of    the     National 
Weather Service.
2.  A hurricane occurrence:
a.  Begins  at  the  time  a  hurricane  watch  or 
warning  is  issued  for  any  part  of  Florida  by 
the  National  Hurricane  Center  of  the  Na- 
tional Weather Service; and
b.  Ends  72  hours  following  the  termination  of 
the  last  hurricane  watch  or  hurricane  warn- 
ing issued for any part of Florida by the Na- 
tional   Hurricane   Center   of   the   National 
Weather Service.
C.  Hurricane Deductible
1.  In  the  event  of  a  single  hurricane  loss,  we  will 
pay  only  that  part  of  the  total  of  all  loss  pay- 
able  under  Coverages  for  loss  by  windstorm 
during  a  hurricane  that  exceeds  the  hurricane 
percentage  or  flat   dollar  deductible  stated  in 
this  endorsement  or  as  indicated  in  the  Decla- 
rations.
If  a  percentage,  the  dollar  amount  of  the  hurri- 
cane  percentage  deductible  is  determined  by 
multiplying  the  limit  of  liability  of  Coverage  A, 
B,  or  D shown in the Declarations, whichever 
is  greatest,  by  the  percentage  amount  shown 
in  the  Schedule  above  or  as  indicated  in  the 
Declarations, but in no event shall be less than
$500.
2. The  hurricane  deductible  applies  on  an  annual 
basis to all covered hurricane losses that occur 
during  the  same  calendar  year  under  this  pol- 
icy, under a  policy(ies) issued by a member  of 
our  insurance  group  or  by  a  policy  assumed 
from Citizens Property Insurance Corporation . 
In  the  event  of  a  subsequent  hurricane  occur- 
ring  during  the  same  calendar  year  and  there 
was  a  loss  from  a  prior  hurricane,  the  hurri- 
cane  deductible  shall  be  the  greater  of  any 
remaining  amount  of  the  hurricane  deductible 
for that calendar year or the amount of the de- 
ductible  that  applies  to  perils  other  than  a  hur- 
ricane. (*)
3.  If  there  are  covered  hurricane  losses  in  a  cal- 
endar  year  on  more  than  one  policy  issued  by 
us,  by  a  member  of  our  insurance  group or by 
a  policy  assumed  from  Citizens  Property  In- 
surance  Corporation,  the  hurricane  deductible 
shall  be the highest amount stated in any one 
of  the  policies.   If  you  had  a  hurricane  loss  in 
the  same  calendar  year  under  the  prior  policy, 
and  we  provide  a  lower  hurricane  deductible 
under the new or renewal policy, the lower de- 
ductible will not apply until January 1 of the fol- 
lowing calendar year.

Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, with its permission 
Page 2 of 2
Ed. 5/2005
4.  In the event you should have any windstorm 
loss caused by a hurricane occurrence which is 
less than your hurricane deductible, you must 
promptly report the loss to us so that such 
losses may be applied to subsequent hurricane 
claims during the same calendar year.
5.  Refer to the policy declarations for the de- 
ductible that applies to windstorm loss if the 
circumstances of the loss described above do 
not apply.
All other provisions of this policy apply.
(*) Multiple Hurricane Example: 
If:
A  policy  is  written  effective  July  1,  2005  and  on 
August  1,  2005  a  hurricane  causes  damage  to 
covered  property  in  excess  of  the  hurricane  de- 
ductible.  The  loss  is  paid,  less  the  hurricane  de- 
ductible.
A  hurricane  then   occurs  on  September  1,  2005 
and  damages  covered  property.  The  loss  is  paid 
less the deductible that applies to perils other than 
a hurricane.
On  June  1,  2006,  a  hurricane  causes  damage  to 
covered  property.  A  new  2006  hurricane  deducti- 
ble  applies.  Assume  the  damage  is  only  one- 
quarter  of  the  amount  of  the  2006  hurricane  de- 
ductible and therefore the loss is not paid by us.
The  policy  is  renewed  effective  July  1,  2006.  A 
hurricane occurs on September 1, 2006.  The loss 
is  paid  less  an  amount  equal  to  the  greater  of  the 
amount of the three-quarters of the 2006 hurricane 
deductible  still  remaining  or  the  amount  of  the  de- 
ductible  that  applies  to  perils  other  than  a  hurri- 
cane.

  DL 24 16 12 02© ISO Properties, Inc.,  2002Page 1 of 1
PERSONAL LIABILITY
DL 24 16 12 02
THIS ENDORSEMENT DOES NOT CONSTITUTE A REDUCTION OF COVERAGE.
NO COVERAGE FOR 
HOME DAY CARE BUSINESS
A."Business", as defined in the policy, means:
1.A  trade,  profession  or  occupation  engaged  in 
on a full time, part-time or occasional basis; or
2.Any  other  activity  engaged  in  for  money  or 
other compensation, except the following:
a.One or more activities:
(1)Not described in b. through d. below,
(2)For  which  no  "insured"  receives  more 
than  $2,000  in  total  compensation   for 
the  12  months  before  the  beginning  of 
the policy period;
b.Volunteer  activities  for  which  no  money  is 
received  other  than  payment  for  expenses 
incurred to perform the activity;
c.Providing home day care services for which 
no compensation is received, other than the 
mutual exchange of such services; or
d.The rendering of home day care services to 
a relative of an "insured".
B.If  an  "insured"  regularly  provides  home  day  care 
services  to  a  person  or  persons  other  than  "in- 
sureds"  as  their  trade,  profession  or  occupation, 
that service is a "business".
C.If home day care service is not a given "insured's" 
trade, profession or occupation but is an activity:
1.That  an  "insured"  engages  in  for  money   or 
other compensation; and
2.From  which  an  "insured"  receives  more  than
$2,000  in  total/combined  compensation  from  it 
for  the  12  months  before  the  beginning  of  the 
policy period,
the home day care service and other activity will be 
considered a "business".
D.With respect to C. above home day care service is 
only  an  example  of  an  activity  engaged  in  for 
money that may be a "business". Any single activ- 
ity or combination of activities:
1.Described in A.2. above, and
2.Engaged in for money by a single "insured";
may be  considered  a  "business"  if  the  $2000 
threshold is exceeded.
E.With  respect  to  A.  through  D.  above,  coverage 
does  not  apply  with  respect  to  home  day  care 
service which is a "business". This policy does not 
provide  coverage  because  a  "business"  of  an  "in- 
sured" is excluded under Exclusion E.2.



Southern Oak Insurance Company
HOMEOWNERS
SOI DP LRC 04 24
THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY.  PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.
LIMITATIONS ON ROOF COVERAGE
With respect to this endorsement, the following definitions are added or revised; 
“Roof surfacing” means the:
a.   Exterior shingles, panels or tiles;
b.   Cladding, underlayment, or decking;
c.   Felt, membrane, including self-adhered water and ice-dam protection membrane, tar, and tar 
paper;
d.   Metal or synthetic sheeting or similar materials covering the roof;
e.   Roof vents;
f.    Roof flashing and drip edges;
g.   Turbines;
h.   Skylight and/or components; or
i.Any other roofing component comprising part of the overall roof surface
This includes all materials used in securing the roof surface and all materials applied to or under the roof 
surface for moisture protection.
“Hurricane occurrence”
a.   Begins at the time a hurricane warning is issued for any part of Florida by the National Hurricane 
Center of the National Weather Service; and
b.   Ends 72 hours following the termination of the last hurricane watch or hurricane warning issued 
for any part of Florida by the National Hurricane Center of the National Weather Service.
“Named Storm occurrence”
a.   Begins at the time a tropical warning is issued for any part of Florida by the National Hurricane 
Center of the National Weather Service; and
b.   Ends 72 hours following the termination of the last tropical storm watch or tropical storm warning 
issued for any part of Florida by the National Hurricane Center of the National Weather Service.
The following is added under GENERAL EXCLUSIONS:
Notwithstanding any other provisions within the policy, with regard to property described in COVERAGE 
A – Dwelling and COVERAGE B – Other Structures, unless loss is caused by a “Hurricane occurrence” 
or “Named Storm occurrence,” we do not cover loss to “Roof surfacing” caused directly or indirectly by 
any of the following:
a.   Wear and tear, marring, spatter marks, or deterioration;
b.   Displacement or removal of roof surface granules that does not result in fracturing, bruising, 
puncturing, or other damage to the base material or underlying mat;
c.    Inherent vice or latent defect;
d.   Faulty, inadequate, or defective maintenance;
e.   Faulty,  inadequate,  or  defective  materials  used  in  repair,  construction,  renovation,  or 
remodeling;
f.    Faulty,  inadequate,  or  defective  design,  specifications,  workmanship,  repair,  construction, 
renovation, or remodeling; or
g.   Settling, shrinking, bulging, or expansion, including resultant cracking.
This exclusion does not change coverage for ensuing loss to any property described in Coverage A – 
Dwelling and Coverage B – Other Structures which does not fall under the definition of “Roof Surfacing”, 
caused directly or indirectly by a. through g. above, unless such ensuing loss is precluded by any other 
provision in this policy.
All other policy provisions not specifically modified by this endorsement apply.
SOI DP LRC 04 24Page 1 of 1



SOI MPLED 01 16
Southern Oak Insurance Company
Mandatory Policy Limitations and Exclusions
Please read carefully, this endorsement changes your policy.
NON-STRUCTURAL HAIL LOSS LIMITATION
Hail often dents the exterior surface of a home or other structure without causing structural damage.  
Materials usually affected by this type of damage include but are not limited to: 
1.   metal; 
2.   fiberglass; 
3.   rigid plastic porches; 
4.   carports; 
5.   awnings; and 
6.   utility rooms.  
When this type of loss or damage occurs, we will pay the lowest of the following amounts:
1.   The cost of repairing or replacing the damaged portion of the property; or
2.   2% of the amount of insurance provided under Coverage A - Dwelling or Coverage B – Other 
Structures depending on which item was damaged.



Southern Oak Insurance Company
DWELLING 
SOI DL 24 11 05 19
PREMISES LIABILITY
(Non-Owner Occupied Dwelling)
DEFINITIONS
Definition  6.  "Insured  location"  is  extended  to 
include     the     premises     shown     in     the 
Declarations  as  “Insured  location  covered  by 
this policy”.
LIABILITY COVERAGES
Coverage L - Personal Liability and Coverage 
M   -   Medical   Payments   To   Others   are 
restricted to apply only with respect to "bodily 
injury"  and  "property  damage"  arising  out  of 
the:
1.    Ownership;
2.    Maintenance;
3.    Occupancy; or
4.    Use;
of the premises shown in the Declarations as 
“Insured location covered by this policy”.
EXCLUSIONS
Exclusion E.2. “Business” does not apply to the 
premises shown  in the Declarations as “Insured 
location covered by this policy”.
All other provisions of this Policy apply.
SOI DL 24 11 05 19   Includes copyrighted material of Insurance Services Office, Inc., with its permissionPage 1 of 1



POLICY NUMBER:DWELLING FIRE
SOI 04 66
Ed 03/2007
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING YOUR POLICY
Coverage Exclusion and Reduction
Southern Oak Insurance has implemented the following changes to your policy that may increase 
your out of pocket expenses in the event of a loss:
This policy contains form SOI 04 62 which excludes coverage for screened enclosures, 
including pool cages as defined in the form for the peril of windstorm during a hurricane.   
Please refer to the form for complete details.     For an additional premium, you may 
purchase up to $50,000 of coverage for screened enclosures.  
Please contact your insurance agent for coverage details or to endorse these coverages onto 
your policy.



POLICY NUMBER:DWELLING FIRE
SOI 04 62
Ed 03/2007
THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES YOUR POLICY, PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY. 
HURRICANE EXCLUSION - SCREENED ENCLOSURE(S)
DEFINITION:
Screened Enclosure(s): means any structure, whether or not attached to the dwelling, enclosed 
by screens on more than one side, otherwise open to the weather, and not constructed and 
covered by the same or substantially the same materials as that of the dwelling.
DWELLING PROPERTY 3 – SPECIAL FORM
COVERAGES
Under Coverage A – Dwelling
The following paragraph is added:
3.  We do not cover “Screened Enclosure(s)” as defined for the peril of windstorm during a 
hurricane unless specified on the declarations page and for which an additional premium is paid.  
If an amount of coverage is indicated for “Screened Enclosure(s)” on the declaration page, this 
amount is an additional amount of coverage.  It does not reduce your Coverage A limit of liability.
Under Coverage B – Other Structures
The following paragraph is added:
2.  f.  We do not cover “Screened Enclosure(s)” as defined for the peril of windstorm during a 
hurricane unless specified on the declarations page and for which an additional premium is paid.  
If an amount of coverage is indicated for “Screened Enclosure(s)” on the declaration page, this 
amount is an additional amount of coverage.  It does not reduce your Coverage B limit of liability. 
For the purpose of this endorsement, a hurricane means a storm system that has been declared 
to be a hurricane by the National Hurricane Center of the National Weather Service.  This 
exclusion is in effect beginning at the time a hurricane watch or warning is issued for any part of 
Florida by the National Hurricane Center of the National Weather Service, and ending 72 hours 
following the termination of the last hurricane watch or warning issued for any part of Florida.
Coverage for the peril of windstorm during a hurricane to screened enclosure(s) may be available 
for an additional premium.
All other terms and policy provisions of this policy apply.



Southern Oak Insurance Company
HOMEOWNERS
SOI SDP LWD 03 20
THIS ENDORSEMENT CHANGES THE POLICY.  PLEASE READ IT CAREFULLY.
LIMITED WATER DAMAGE COVERAGE ENDORSEMENT
For a premium credit, your policy is changed as follows:
The following SPECIAL LIMIT OF LIABILITY is added under SECTION I – PERILS INSURED AGAINST for
Coverage A – Dwelling, Coverage B – Other Structures, and Coverage C – Personal Property. 
This limitation is added to:
2.c.(7) and 2.c.(8) for Coverages A and B in SOI 2002 DP (Dwelling Property 3 – Special Form) and SOI 04 
67 (Florida Policy Provisions);
12.for Coverage C in SOI 2002 DP (Dwelling Property 3 – Special Form);
The  total  limit  of  liability  for  water  damage  to  covered  property  is  5%  of  Coverage  A  or  $10,000,  whichever  is 
greater.  The  limit  is  per  occurrence  and  applies  to  all  damaged  covered  property  under  Coverage  A,  B  and  C 
combined.
This limit applies to direct physical damage caused by sudden and accidental discharge or overflow of water or 
steam from within a plumbing, heating, air conditioning or automatic fire protective sprinkler system or household 
appliance on the Described Location.
This limit includes the cost of tearing out and replacing any part or portion of the covered building or other struc- 
ture necessary to provide access to the part or portion of the system or appliance that caused the covered loss.
The total limit of liability for water damage to covered property stated above applies to and is the most we will pay 
for:
a.   The cost of tearing out and replacing any part or portion of the covered building or other structure neces- 
sary to provide access to the part or portion of the system or appliance that caused the covered loss;
b.   The cost of all cosmetic and aesthetic damage, which occurs in the same loss including any repair or re- 
placement of items to match quality, color, or size; and
c.    The cost for Reasonable Emergency Measures under Section I – Property Coverage which occurs in the 
same loss.
We do not pay for the repair or replacement of the system or appliance that caused the covered loss. 
This coverage does not increase the limit of liability that applies to the damaged covered property.
All other provisions of your policy apply.
SOI SDP LWD 03 20Page 1 of 1

